.\" $Xorg: xclock.man,v 1.4 2001/02/09 02:05:39 xorgcvs Exp $
.\" Copyright 1988, 1994, 1998  The Open Group
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of The Open Group shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from The Open Group.
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/xclock/xclock.man,v 1.15 2003/07/04 16:24:30 eich Exp $
.\"
.TH XCLOCK 1 __xorgversion__
.SH NAME
xclock \- analog / digital clock for X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ta 8n
\fBxclock\fP [ \fB\-help\fP ] [ \fB\-analog\fP | \fB\-digital\fP ]
[ \fB\-brief\fP ] [ \fB\-chime\fP ] [ \fB\-hd\fP \fIcolor\fP ]
[ \fB\-hl\fP \fIcolor\fP ] [ \fB\-update\fP \fIseconds\fP ]
[ \fB\-strftime\fP \fIformat\fP ]
[ \fB\-twelve\fP | \fB-twentyfour\fP | \fB-utime\fP ]
[ \fB\-padding\fP \fInumber\fP ]
[ \fB\-norender\fP ]
[ \fB\-render\fP ]
[ \fB\-sharp\fP ]
[ \fB\-face\fP \fIpattern\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I xclock
program displays the time in analog or digital form.  The time is continuously
updated at a frequency which may be specified by the user.
.SH OPTIONS
.I Xclock
accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options along with the
additional options listed below:
.TP 8
.B \-help
This option indicates that a brief summary of the allowed options should be
printed on the standard error.
.TP 8
.B \-analog
This option indicates that a conventional 12 hour clock face with tick marks
and hands should be used.  This is the default.
.TP 8
\fB\-digital\fP or \fB\-d\fP
This option indicates that a 24 hour digital clock should be used.
.TP 8
\fB\-brief\fP
This option indicates that the digital clock should only display the hours
and minutes fields.  The default is to show the full time and date information.
.TP 8
\fB\-utime\fP
This option indicates that a digital clock should display seconds since
the Epoch (in format '970012340 seconds since Epoch' instead of a standard
24-hour time.
.TP 8
.B \-strftime \fIformat\fP
This option allows an strftime(3) format string to be specified for the
digital clock's display.
.TP 8
.B \-twelve
This option indicates that a digital clock should display the time in
twelve hour format.
.TP 8
.B \-twentyfour
This option indicates that a digital clock should display the time in
twenty-four hour format.  This is the default when a digital clock is used.
.TP 8
.B \-chime
This option indicates that the clock should chime
once on the half hour and twice on the hour.
.TP 8
\fB\-hands\fP \fIcolor\fP (or \fB\-hd\fP \fIcolor\fP)
This option specifies the color of the hands on an analog clock.  The default
is \fIblack\fP.
This option is effectively ignored when Xrender is in use.
.TP 8
\fB\-highlight\fP \fIcolor\fP (or \fB\-hl\fP \fIcolor\fP)
This option specifies the color of the edges of the hands on an analog clock,
and is only useful on color displays.  The default is \fIblack\fP.
This option is effectively ignored when Xrender is in use.
.TP 8
.B \-update \fIseconds\fP
This option specifies the frequency in seconds at which \fIxclock\fP
should update its display.  If the clock is obscured and then exposed,
it will be updated immediately.  A value of 30 seconds or less will enable a
second hand on an analog clock.  The default is 60 seconds.
.TP 8
.B \-padding \fInumber\fP
This option specifies the width in pixels of the padding
between the window border and clock text or picture.  The default is 10
on a digital clock and 8 on an analog clock.
.TP 8
.B \-render
This option tells \fIxclock\fP to use the Xrender extension to draw an
anti-aliased face. This is the default if \fIxclock\fP has been
compiled with Xrender support.
Note that the color selection options and resources used when Xrender is
in effect differ from the standard options.
.TP 8
.B \-norender
This option turns off the use of Xrender to draw the clock.
.TP 8
.B \-sharp
This option tells \fIxclock\fP to use sharper edges when drawn using
the Xrender extension.
.TP 8
.B \-face \fIpattern\fP
This option specifies the font to use in digital mode when the
Xrender extension is used.  Patterns are specified using the
fontconfig face format described in the
.I Font Names
section of
.IR fonts.conf (__filemansuffix__).
.SH X DEFAULTS
This program uses the
.I Clock
widget.  It understands all of the core resource names and classes as well as:
.PP
.TP 8
.B width (\fPclass\fB Width)
Specifies the width of the clock.  The default for analog clocks is 164
pixels; the default for digital clocks is whatever is needed to hold the
clock when displayed in the chosen font.
.TP 8
.B height (\fPclass\fB Height)
Specifies the height of the clock.  The default for analog clocks is 164
pixels; the default for digital clocks is whatever is needed to hold the
clock when displayed in the chosen font.
.TP 8
.B update (\fPclass\fB Interval)
Specifies the frequency in seconds at which the time should be redisplayed.
.TP 8
.B foreground (\fPclass\fB Foreground)
Specifies the color for the tick marks. The default depends on whether
\fIreverseVideo\fP is specified.  If \fIreverseVideo\fP is specified
the default is \fIlwhite\fP, otherwise the default is \fIblack\fP.

.TP 8
.B hands (\fPclass\fB Foreground)
Specifies the color of the insides of the clock's hands. The default
depends on whether
\fIreverseVideo\fP is specified.  If \fIreverseVideo\fP is specified
the default is \fIlwhite\fP, otherwise the default is \fIblack\fP.
Note that this resource is not used when Xrender is in effect.
.TP 8
.B highlight (\fPclass\fB Foreground)
Specifies the color used to highlight the clock's hands. The default is
 depends on whether
\fIreverseVideo\fP is specified.  If \fIreverseVideo\fP is specified
the default is \fIlwhite\fP, otherwise the default is \fIblack\fP.
Note that this resource is not used when Xrender is in effect.
.TP 8
.B analog (\fPclass\fB Boolean)
Specifies whether or not an analog clock should be used instead of a digital
one.  The default is True.
.TP 8
.B twentyfour (\fPclass\fB Boolean)
Specifies whether or not a digital clock should display the time in
twenty-four hour format.  The default is True.
.TP 8
.B chime (\fPclass\fB Boolean)
Specifies whether or not a bell should be rung on the hour and half hour.
.TP 8
.B padding (\fPclass\fB Margin)
Specifies the amount of internal padding in pixels to be used.  The default is
8.
.TP 8
.B font (\fPclass\fB Font)
Specifies the font to be used for the digital clock.  Note that variable width
fonts currently will not always display correctly.
This font is only used when Xrender is not in effect.
.TP 8
.B render (\fPclass\fB Boolean)
Specifies whether or not the Xrender extension should be used for the
display. The default is True if \fIxclock\fP has been compiled with
Xrender support.
.PP
When Xrender is in effect, the following additional resources are
understood:
.PP
.TP 8
.B face (\fPclass\fB FaceName)
Specify the pattern for the font to be used for the digital clock when
Xrender is used.   Patterns are specified using the fontconfig face format
described in the
.I Font Names
section of
.IR fonts.conf (__filemansuffix__).
.TP 8
.B sharp (\fPclass\fB Boolean)
Specifies if sharp edges should be used when rendering the clock.
The default is False.
.TP 8
.B buffer (\fPclass\fB Boolean)
Specifies that the updates of the image are drawn to a pixmap before copied
into the window instead drawing them into the window directly.
.PP
The defaults of the following color resources depend on whether
\fIreverseVideo\fP is specified.
If \fIreverseVideo\fP is specified the default is \fIlwhite\fP,
otherwise the default is \fIblack\fP.
.TP 8
.B hourColor (\fPclass\fB Foreground)
The color of the hour hand.
.TP 8
.B minuteColor (\fPclass\fB Foreground)
The color of the minute hand.
.TP 8
.B secondColor (\fPclass\fB Foreground)
The color of the second hand.
.TP 8
.B majorColor (\fPclass\fB Foreground)
The color of the major scale ticks (i. e. each five minutes).
.TP 8
.B minorColor (\fPclass\fB Foreground)
The color of the minor scale ticks (between major ticks).
.SH WIDGETS
In order to specify resources, it is useful to know the hierarchy of
the widgets which compose \fIxclock\fR.  In the notation below,
indentation indicates hierarchical structure.  The widget class name
is given first, followed by the widget instance name.
.sp
.nf
.\".TA .5i
.ta .5i
XClock  xclock
	Clock  clock
.fi
.sp
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I __apploaddir__/XClock
specifies required resources
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(__miscmansuffix__), xrdb(1), time(3C), fonts.conf (__filemansuffix__).
.SH BUGS
.I Xclock
believes the system clock.
.PP
When in digital mode, the string should be centered automatically.
.SH AUTHORS
Tony Della Fera (MIT-Athena, DEC)
.br
Dave Mankins (MIT-Athena, BBN)
.br
Ed Moy (UC Berkeley)

