.\" Copyright (c) 1999 - Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of
.\" the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this
.\" permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT
.\" OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
.\" HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
.\" FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
.\" WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" of the copyright holder.
.\"
.TH XkbAddGeomShape __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbAddGeomShape \- Add a shape to a keyboard geometry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B XkbShapePtr XkbAddGeomShape
(
.I geom,
.I name,
.I sz_outlines
)
.br
      XkbGeometryPtr \fIgeom\fP\^;
.br
      Atom \fIname\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIsz_outlines\fP\^;
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- geom
geometry to be updated
.TP
.I \- name
name of the new shape
.TP
.I \- sz_outlines
number of outlines to be reserved
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Xkb provides functions to add a single new element to the top-level keyboard geometry. In each case the 
.I num_ * 
fields of the corresponding structure is incremented by 1. These functions do not change 
.I sz_* 
unless there is no more room in the array. Some of these functions fill in the values of the element's structure from the 
arguments. For other functions, you must explicitly write code to fill the structure's elements.

The top-level geometry description includes a list of 
.I geometry properties. 
A geometry property associates an arbitrary string with an equally arbitrary name. Programs that display images of 
keyboards can use geometry properties as hints, but they are not interpreted by Xkb. No other geometry structures refer to 
geometry properties.

A geometry contains an arbitrary number of shapes, each of which is made up of an arbitrary number of outlines.
.I XkbAddGeomShape 
adds a shape to a geometry 
.I geom 
by allocating space for 
.I sz_outlines 
outlines for it and giving it the name specified by 
.I name. 
If a shape with name 
.I name 
already exists in the geometry, a pointer to the existing shape is returned. 
.I XkbAddGeomShape 
returns NULL if any of the parameters is empty or if it was not able to allocate space. To allocate space for an arbitrary 
number of geometry shapes, use 
.I XkbAllocGeomShapes.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

    typedef struct _XkbShape {
        Atom              name;           /\(** shape's name */
        unsigned short    num_outlines;   /\(** number of outlines for the shape */
        unsigned short    sz_outlines;    /\(** size of the outlines array */
        XkbOutlinePtr     outlines;       /\(** array of outlines for the shape */
        XkbOutlinePtr     approx;         /\(** pointer into the array to the approximating outline */
        XkbOutlinePtr     primary;        /\(** pointer into the array to the primary outline */
        XkbBoundsRec      bounds;         /\(** bounding box for the shape; encompasses all outlines */
    } XkbShapeRec, *XkbShapePtr;
    
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbAllocGeomShapes (__libmansuffix__)
