'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 - Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of
.\" the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this
.\" permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT
.\" OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
.\" HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
.\" FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
.\" WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" of the copyright holder.
.\"
.TH XkbGetVirtualMods __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetVirtualMods \- Obtain a subset of the virtual modifier bindings (the vmods 
array) in a keyboard description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Status XkbGetVirtualMods
(
.I dpy,
.I which,
.I xkb
)
.br
      Display * \fIdpy\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIwhich\fP\^;
.br
      XkbDescPtr \fIxkb\fP\^;
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection to server
.TP
.I \- which
mask indicating virtual modifier bindings to get
.TP
.I \- xkb
Xkb description where results will be placed
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbGetVirtualMods 
sends a request to the server to obtain the 
.I vmods 
entries for the virtual modifiers specified in the mask, 
.I which, 
and waits for a reply. 

Virtual modifiers are named by converting their string name to an X Atom and storing the Atom in the 
.I names.vmods 
array in an XkbDescRec structure. The position of a name Atom in the 
.I names.vmods 
array defines the bit position used to represent the virtual modifier and also the index used when 
accessing virtual modifier information in arrays: the name in the i-th (0 relative) entry of 
.I names.vmods 
is the i-th virtual modifier, represented by the mask (1<<i). Throughout Xkb, various functions have 
a parameter that is a mask representing virtual modifier choices. In each case, the i-th bit (0 
relative) of the mask represents the i-th virtual modifier.

To set the name of a virtual modifier, use 
.I XkbSetNames, 
using XkbVirtualModNamesMask in 
.I which 
and the name in the 
.I xkb 
argument; to retrieve indicator names, use 
.I XkbGetNames.

For each bit set in 
.I which, XkbGetVirtualMods 
updates the corresponding virtual modifier definition in the 
.I server->vmods 
array of 
.I xkb. 
The 
.I xkb 
parameter must be a pointer to a valid Xkb keyboard description. If successful,
.I XkbGetVirtualMods 
returns Success.

.B Virtual Modifier Names and Masks

Virtual modifiers are named by converting their string name to an X Atom and 
storing the Atom in the 
.I names.vmods 
array in an XkbDescRec structure. The position of a name Atom in the 
.I names.vmods 
array defines the bit position used to represent the virtual modifier and also 
the index used when accessing virtual modifier information in arrays: the name 
in the i-th (0 relative) entry of 
.I names.vmods 
is the i-th virtual modifier, represented by the mask (1<<i). Throughout Xkb, 
various functions have a parameter that is a mask representing virtual modifier 
choices. In each case, the i-th bit (0 relative) of the mask represents the i-th 
virtual modifier.

To set the name of a virtual modifier, use 
.I XkbSetNames, 
using XkbVirtualModNamesMask in 
.I which 
and the name in the 
.I xkb 
argument; to retrieve indicator names, use 
.I XkbGetNames.

If the 
.I server 
map has not been allocated in the 
.I xkb 
parameter, 
.I XkbGetVirtualMods 
allocates and initializes it before obtaining the virtual modifier bindings.

If the server does not have a compatible version of Xkb, or the Xkb extension 
has not been properly initialized, 
.I XkbGetVirtualMods 
returns BadMatch. Any errors in allocation cause 
.I XkbGetVirtualMods 
to return BadAlloc.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
Success
The 
.I XkbGetVirtualMods 
function returns Success when it successfully updates the corresponding virtual modifier definition 
in the 
.I server->vmods 
array of 
.I xkb. 
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
The complete description of an Xkb keyboard is given by an XkbDescRec. The 
component 
structures in the XkbDescRec represent the major Xkb components.

.nf
typedef struct {
   struct _XDisplay * display;      /\(** connection to X server */
   unsigned short     flags;        /\(** private to Xkb, do not modify */
   unsigned short     device_spec;  /\(** device of interest */
   KeyCode            min_key_code; /\(** minimum keycode for device */
   KeyCode            max_key_code; /\(** maximum keycode for device */
   XkbControlsPtr     ctrls;        /\(** controls */
   XkbServerMapPtr    server;       /\(** server keymap */
   XkbClientMapPtr    map;          /\(** client keymap */
   XkbIndicatorPtr    indicators;   /\(** indicator map */
   XkbNamesPtr        names;        /\(** names for all components */
   XkbCompatMapPtr    compat;       /\(** compatibility map */
   XkbGeometryPtr     geom;         /\(** physical geometry of keyboard */
} XkbDescRec, *XkbDescPtr;

.fi
The 
.I display 
field points to an X display structure. The 
.I flags 
field is private to the library: modifying 
.I flags 
may yield unpredictable results. The 
.I device_spec 
field specifies the device identifier of the keyboard input device, or XkbUseCoreKeyboard, which 
specifies the core keyboard device. The 
.I min_key_code
and 
.I max_key_code 
fields specify the least and greatest keycode that can be returned by the keyboard.

Each structure component has a corresponding mask bit that is used in function 
calls to 
indicate that the structure should be manipulated in some manner, such as 
allocating it 
or freeing it. These masks and their relationships to the fields in the 
XkbDescRec are 
shown in Table 1.

.TS
c s s
l l l
l l l.
Table 1 Mask Bits for XkbDescRec
_
Mask Bit	XkbDescRec Field	Value
_
XkbControlsMask	ctrls	(1L<<0)
XkbServerMapMask	server	(1L<<1)
XkbIClientMapMask	map	(1L<<2)
XkbIndicatorMapMask	indicators	(1L<<3)
XkbNamesMask	names	(1L<<4)
XkbCompatMapMask	compat	(1L<<5)
XkbGeometryMask	geom	(1L<<6)
XkbAllComponentsMask	All Fields	(0x7f)
.TE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable to allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available in the server or an argument has 
correct type and range, but is otherwise invalid
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbGetNames (__libmansuffix__),
.BR XkbSetNames (__libmansuffix__)
