'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 - Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of
.\" the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this
.\" permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT
.\" OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
.\" HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
.\" FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
.\" WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" of the copyright holder.
.\"
.TH XkbGetKeyExplicitComponents 3Xkb "20 Jul 1999" "X v11 Rel. 6.4" "XKB 
FUNCTION"
.SH NAME
XkbGetKeyExplicitComponents \- Obtain the explicit components (the explicit 
array) for a subset of the keys in a keyboard description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Status XkbGetKeyExplicitComponents
(
.I dpy,
.I first,
.I num,
.I xkb
)
.br
      Display * \fIdpy\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIfirst\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fInum\fP\^;
.br
      XkbDescPtr \fIxkb\fP\^;
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection to server
.TP
.I \- first
keycode of first key to fetch
.TP
.I \- num
number of keys for which to get explicit info
.TP
.I \- xkb
Xkb description in which to put results
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Whenever a client remaps the keyboard using core protocol requests, Xkb examines 
the map to determine likely default values for the components that cannot be 
specified using the core protocol (see Core Keyboard Mapping to Xkb Keyboard 
Mapping Transformation for more information on how Xkb chooses the default 
values).

DO THE FOUR PAGES OF "CORE KEYBOARD MAPPING TO XKB KEYBOARD MAPPING 
TRANSFORMATION" NEED TO BE ADDED HERE?

This automatic remapping might replace definitions explicitly requested by an 
application, so the Xkb keyboard description defines an explicit components mask 
for each key. Any aspects of the automatic remapping listed in the explicit 
components mask for a key are not changed by the automatic keyboard mapping.
 
The explicit components masks are held in the 
.I explicit 
field of the server map, which is an array indexed by keycode. Each entry in 
this array is a mask that is a bitwise inclusive OR of the values shown in Table 
1.
.TS
c s s
l l l
l l lw(3i).
Table 1 Explicit Component Masks
_
Bit in Explicit Mask	Value	Protects Against
_
ExplicitKeyType1	(1<<0)	T{
Automatic determination of the key type associated with Group1.
T}
ExplicitKeyType2	(1<<1)	T{
Automatic determination of the key type associated with Group2.
T}
ExplicitKeyType3	(1<<2)	T{
Automatic determination of the key type associated with Group3.
T}
ExplicitKeyType4	(1<<3)	T{
Automatic determination of the key type associated with Group4.
T}
ExplicitInterpret	(1<<4)	T{
Application of any of the fields of a symbol interpretation to the key in 
question.
T}
ExplicitAutoRepeat	(1<<5)	T{
Automatic determination of auto-repeat status for the key, as specified in a 
symbol interpretation.
T}
ExplicitBehavior	(1<<6)	T{
Automatic assignment of the XkbKB_Lock behavior to the key, if the 
XkbSI_LockingKey flag is set in a symbol interpretation.
T}
ExplicitVModMap	(1<<7)	T{
Automatic determination of the virtual modifier map for the key based on the 
actions assigned to the key and the symbol interpretations that match the key.
T}
.TE

.I XkbGetKeyExplicitComponents 
sends a request to the server to obtain the explicit components for 
.I num 
keys on the keyboard starting with key 
.I first. 
It waits for a reply and returns the explicit components in the 
.I server->explicit 
array of 
.I xkb. 
If successful, 
.I XkbGetKeyExplicitComponents 
returns Success. The 
.I xkb 
parameter must be a pointer to a valid Xkb keyboard description.

If the 
.I server 
map in the 
.I xkb 
parameter has not been allocated, 
.I XkbGetKeyExplicitComponents 
allocates and initializes it before obtaining the actions.

If the server does not have a compatible version of Xkb, or the Xkb extension 
has not been properly initialized, 
.I XkbGetKeyExplicitComponents 
returns BadMatch. If 
.I num 
is less than 1 or greater than XkbMaxKeyCount, 
.I XkbGetKeyExplicitComponents 
returns BadValue. If any allocation errors occur, 
.I XkbGetKeyExplicitComponents 
returns BadAlloc.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable to allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadMatch
A compatible version of Xkb was not available in the server or an argument has 
correct type and range, but is otherwise invalid
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is out of range
