'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 - Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of
.\" the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this
.\" permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT
.\" OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
.\" HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
.\" FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
.\" WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" of the copyright holder.
.\"
.TH XkbGetKeyboard __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetKeyboard \-   Retrieves one or more components of a keyboard device 
description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B XkbDescPtr XkbGetKeyboard
.BI "(\^Display *" "display" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "which" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "device_spec" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
connection to the X server 
.TP
.I device_spec
device ID, or XkbUseCoreKbd
.TP
.I bits_to_change
determines events to be selected / deselected
.TP
.I values_for_bits
1=>select, 0->deselect; for events in bits_to_change
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbGetKeyboard 
allocates and returns a pointer to a keyboard description. It queries the server for those 
components specified in the 
.I which 
parameter for device 
.I device_spec 
and copies the results to the XkbDescRec it allocated. The remaining fields in the keyboard 
description are set to NULL. The valid masks for 
.I which 
are those listed in Table 1.

.TS
c s s
l l l
l l l.
Table 1 Mask Bits for XkbDescRec
_
Mask Bit	XkbDescRec Field	Value
_
XkbControlsMask	ctrls	(1L<<0)
XkbServerMapMask	server	(1L<<1)
XkbIClientMapMask	map	(1L<<2)
XkbIndicatorMapMask	indicators	(1L<<3)
XkbNamesMask	names	(1L<<4)
XkbCompatMapMask	compat	(1L<<5)
XkbGeometryMask	geom	(1L<<6)
XkbAllComponentsMask	All Fields	(1L<<7)
.TE

.I XkbGetKeyboard 
is used to read the current description for one or more components of a keyboard device. It calls
.I XkbGetKeyboardByName 
as follows:

.I XkbGetKeyboardByName(dpy, device_spec, 
NULL, 
.I which, which, 
False).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.SM BadAlloc
Unable to allocate storage

