.\" Copyright (c) 1999 - Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of
.\" the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this
.\" permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT
.\" OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
.\" HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
.\" FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
.\" WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" of the copyright holder.
.\"
.TH XkbGetKeyActions __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetKeyActions \- Update the actions (the key_acts array) for a subset of the 
keys in a keyboard description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbGetKeyActions
.BI "(\^Display *" "dpy" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "first" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "num" "\^,"
.BI "XkbDescPtr " "xkb" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- dpy
connection to X server
.TP
.I \- first
keycode of first key of interest
.TP
.I \- num
number of keys desired
.TP
.I \- xkb
pointer to keyboard description where result is stored
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbGetKeyActions 
sends a request to the server to obtain the actions for 
.I num 
keys on the keyboard starting with key 
.I first. 
It waits for a reply and returns the actions in the 
.I server->key_acts 
field of 
.I xkb. 
If successful, 
.I XkbGetKeyActions 
returns Success. The 
.I xkb 
parameter must be a pointer to a valid Xkb keyboard description.

If the 
.I server 
map, in the 
.I xkb 
parameter, has not been allocated, 
.I XkbGetKeyActions 
allocates and initializes it before obtaining the actions.

If the server does not have a compatible version of Xkb, or the Xkb extension 
has not been properly initialized, 
.I XkbGetKeyActions 
returns BadAccess. If 
.I num 
is less than 1 or greater than XkbMaxKeyCount, 
.I XkbGetKeyActions 
returns BadValue. If any allocation errors occur, 
.I XkbGetKeyActions 
returns BadAlloc. 
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAccess
The Xkb extension has not been properly initialized
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable to allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is out of range
