.\" Copyright (c) 1999 - Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of
.\" the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this
.\" permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT
.\" OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
.\" HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
.\" FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
.\" WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" of the copyright holder.
.\"
.TH XkbGetAutoRepeatRate __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbGetAutoRepeatRate \- Gets the current attributes of the RepeatKeys control 
for a keyboard device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Bool XkbGetAutoRepeatRate
(
.I display,
.I device_spec,
.I timeout_rtrn,
.I interval_rtrn
)
.br
      Display *\fI display \fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fI device_spec \fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int *\fI timeout_rtrn \fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int *\fI interval_rtrn \fP\^;                  
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- display
connection to X server
.TP
.I \- device_spec
desired device ID, or XkbUseCoreKbd
.TP
.I \- timeout_rtrn
backfilled with initial repeat delay, ms
.TP
.I \- interval_rtrn
backfilled with subsequent repeat delay, ms
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The core protocol allows only control over whether or not the entire keyboard or 
individual keys should auto-repeat when held down. RepeatKeys is a boolean 
control that extends this capability by adding control over the delay until a 
key begins to repeat and the rate at which it repeats. RepeatKeys is coupled 
with the core auto-repeat control: when RepeatKeys is enabled or disabled, the 
core auto-repeat is enabled or disabled and vice versa.

Auto-repeating keys are controlled by two attributes. The first, 
.I timeout, 
is the delay after the initial press of an auto-repeating key and the first 
generated repeat event. The second, 
.I interval, 
is the delay between all subsequent generated repeat events. As with all boolean 
controls, configuring the attributes that determine how the control operates 
does not automatically enable the control as a whole.

.I XkbGetAutoRepeatRate 
queries the server for the current values of the RepeatControls control 
attributes, backfills 
.I timeout_rtrn 
and 
.I interval_rtrn 
with them, and returns True. If a compatible version of the Xkb extension is not 
available in the server 
.I XkbGetAutoRepeatRate 
returns False.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
True
The XkbGetAutoRepeatRate function returns True if a compatible version of the 
Xkb extension is available in the server.
.TP 15
False
The XkbGetAutoRepeatRate function returns False if a compatible version of the 
Xkb extension is not available in the server.
