.\" Copyright (c) 1999 - Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of
.\" the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this
.\" permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT
.\" OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
.\" HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
.\" FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
.\" WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" of the copyright holder.
.\"
.TH XkbIgnoreExtension __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbIgnoreExtension \-  Prevents core X library keyboard functions from using the 
X Keyboard Extension
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Bool XkbIgnoreExtension
.BI "(\^Bool *" "ignore" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I ignore
True means ignore the extension
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
If a server supports the Xkb extension, the X library normally implements preXkb 
keyboard functions using the Xkb keyboard description and state. The server Xkb 
keyboard state may differ from the preXkb keyboard state. This difference does 
not affect most clients, but there are exceptions. To allow these clients to 
work properly, you may instruct the extension not to use Xkb functionality.

Call 
.I XkbIgnoreExtension 
to prevent core X library keyboard functions from using 
the X Keyboard Extension. You must call 
.I XkbIgnoreExtension 
before you open a 
server connection; Xkb does not provide a way to enable or disable use of the 
extension once a connection is established.

.I XkbIgnoreExtension 
tells the X library whether to use the X Keyboard Extension 
on any subsequently opened X display connections. If ignore is True, the library 
does not initialize the Xkb extension when it opens a new display. This forces 
the X server to use compatibility mode and communicate with the client using 
only core protocol requests and events. If ignore is False, the library treats 
subsequent calls to 
.I XOpenDisplay 
normally and uses Xkb extension requests, 
events, and state. Do not explicitly use Xkb on a connection for which it is 
disabled. 
.I XkbIgnoreExtension 
returns False if it was unable to apply the ignore 
request.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
True
The 
.I XkbIgnoreExtension 
returns True if 
.TP 15
False
The 
.I XkbIgnoreExtension 
function returns False if it was unable to apply the ignore request.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XOpenDisplay (__libmansuffix__)
