'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 - Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of
.\" the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this
.\" permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT
.\" OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
.\" HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
.\" FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
.\" WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" of the copyright holder.
.\"
.TH XkbResizeDeviceButtonActions __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbResizeDeviceButtonActions \- Allocate additional space for button actions in an XkbDeviceInfoRec structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B Status XkbResizeDeviceButtonActions
.BI "(\^XkbDeviceInfoPtr " "device_info" "\^,"
.BI "unsigned int " "new_total" "\^);"
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- device_info
structure in which to allocate button actions
.TP
.I \- new_total
new total number of button actions needed
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I XkbResizeDeviceButtonActions 
reallocates space, if necessary, to make sure there is room for a total of
.I new_total 
button actions in the 
.I device_info 
structure. Any new entries allocated are zeroed. If successful,
.I XkbResizeDeviceButtonActions 
returns Success. If 
.I new_total 
is zero, all button actions are deleted, 
.I device_info->num_btns 
is set to zero, and 
.I device_info->btn_acts 
is set to NULL. If 
.I device_info 
is invalid or 
.I new_total 
is greater than 255, BadValue is returned. If a memory allocation failure occurs, a BadAlloc is returned. 

To free an XkbDeviceInfoRec structure, use 
.I XkbFreeDeviceInfo.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
Information about X Input Extension devices is transferred between a client program and the Xkb 
extension in an XkbDeviceInfoRec structure:
.nf

    typedef struct {
        char *               name;          /\(** name for device */
        Atom                 type;          /\(** name for class of devices */
        unsigned short       device_spec;   /\(** device of interest */
        Bool                 has_own_state; /\(** True=>this device has its own state */
        unsigned short       supported;     /\(** bits indicating supported capabilities */
        unsigned short       unsupported;   /\(** bits indicating unsupported capabilities */
        unsigned short       num_btns;      /\(** number of entries in btn_acts */
        XkbAction *          btn_acts;      /\(** button actions */
        unsigned short       sz_leds;       /\(** total number of entries in LEDs vector */
        unsigned short       num_leds;      /\(** number of valid entries in LEDs vector */
        unsigned short       dflt_kbd_fb;   /\(** input extension ID of default (core kbd) indicator */
        unsigned short       dflt_led_fb;   /\(** input extension ID of default indicator feedback */
        XkbDeviceLedInfoPtr  leds;          /\(** LED descriptions */
    } XkbDeviceInfoRec, *XkbDeviceInfoPtr;
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadAlloc
Unable to allocate storage
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is out of range
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbFreeDeviceInfo (__libmansuffix__)
