'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 - Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of
.\" the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this
.\" permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT
.\" OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
.\" HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
.\" FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
.\" WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" of the copyright holder.
.\"
.TH XkbSetIgnoreLockMods __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSetIgnoreLockMods \- Sets the modifiers that, if locked, are not to be 
reported in matching events to passive grabs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Bool XkbSetIgnoreLockMods
(
.I display,
.I device_spec,
.I affect_real,
.I real_values,
.I affect_virtual,
.I virtual_values
)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIdevice_spec\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIaffect_real\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIreal_values\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIaffect_virtual\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIvirtual_values\fP\^;
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- display
connection to the X server
.TP
.I \- device_spec
device ID, or XkbUseCoreKbd
.TP
.I \- affect_real
mask of real modifiers affected by this call
.TP
.I \- real_values
values for affected real modifiers (1=>set, 0=>unset) 
.TP
.I \- affect_virtual
mask of virtual modifiers affected by this call 
.TP
.I \- virtual_values
values for affected virtual modifiers (1=>set, 0=>unset) 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The core protocol does not provide a way to exclude specific modifiers from grab 
calculations, with the result that locking modifiers sometimes have 
unanticipated side effects.

The IgnoreLockMods control specifies modifiers that should be excluded from grab 
calculations. These modifiers are also not reported in any core events except 
KeyPress and KeyRelease events that do not activate a passive grab and that do 
not occur while a grab is active.

Manipulate the IgnoreLockMods control via the 
.I ignore_lock 
field in the XkbControlsRec structure, then use 
.I XkbSetControls 
and 
.I XkbGetControls 
to query and change this control. Alternatively, use 
.I XkbSetIgnoreLockMods.

.I XkbSetIgnoreLockMods 
sends a request to the server to change the server's IgnoreLockMods control.
.I affect_real 
and 
.I real_values 
are masks of real modifier bits indicating which real modifiers are to be added 
and removed from the server's IgnoreLockMods control. Modifiers selected by both
.I affect_real 
and 
.I real_values 
are added to the server's IgnoreLockMods control; those selected by 
.I affect_real 
but not by 
.I real_values 
are removed from the server's IgnoreLockMods control. Valid values for 
.I affect_real 
and 
.I real_values 
consist of any combination of the eight core modifier bits: ShiftMask, LockMask, 
ControlMask, Mod1Mask - Mod5Mask. 
.I affect_virtual 
and 
.I virtual_values 
are masks of virtual modifier bits indicating which virtual modifiers are to be 
added and removed from the server's IgnoreLockMods control. Modifiers selected 
by both 
.I affect_virtual 
and 
.I virtual_values 
are added to the server's IgnoreLockMods control; those selected by 
.I affect_virtual 
but not by 
.I virtual_values 
are removed from the server's IgnoreLockMods control. See below for a discussion 
of virtual modifier masks to use in 
.I affect_virtual 
and 
.I virtual_values. XkbSetIgnoreLockMods 
does not wait for a reply from the server. It returns True if the request was 
sent, and False otherwise.

Virtual modifiers are named by converting their string name to an X Atom and 
storing the Atom in the 
.I names.vmods 
array in an XkbDescRec structure. The position of a name Atom in the 
.I names.vmods 
array defines the bit position used to represent the virtual modifier and also 
the index used when accessing virtual modifier information in arrays: the name 
in the i-th (0 relative) entry of 
.I names.vmods 
is the i-th virtual modifier, represented by the mask (1<<i). Throughout Xkb, 
various functions have a parameter that is a mask representing virtual modifier 
choices. In each case, the i-th bit (0 relative) of the mask represents the i-th 
virtual modifier.

To set the name of a virtual modifier, use 
.I XkbSetNames, 
using XkbVirtualModNamesMask in 
.I which 
and the name in the 
.I xkb 
argument; to retrieve indicator names, use 
.I XkbGetNames.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
The complete description of an Xkb keyboard is given by an XkbDescRec. The 
component structures in the XkbDescRec represent the major Xkb components.
.nf

typedef struct {
    struct _XDisplay * display;      /\(** connection to X server */
    unsigned short     flags;        /\(** private to Xkb, do not modify */
    unsigned short     device_spec;  /\(** device of interest */
    KeyCode            min_key_code; /\(** minimum keycode for device */
    KeyCode            max_key_code; /\(** maximum keycode for device */
    XkbControlsPtr     ctrls;        /\(** controls */
    XkbServerMapPtr    server;       /\(** server keymap */
    XkbClientMapPtr    map;          /\(** client keymap */
    XkbIndicatorPtr    indicators;   /\(** indicator map */
    XkbNamesPtr        names;        /\(** names for all components */
    XkbCompatMapPtr    compat;       /\(** compatibility map */
    XkbGeometryPtr     geom;         /\(** physical geometry of keyboard */
} XkbDescRec, *XkbDescPtr;

.fi
The display field points to an X display structure. The flags field is private 
to the library: modifying flags may yield unpredictable results. The device_spec 
field specifies the device identifier of the keyboard input device, or 
XkbUseCoreKeyboard, which specifies the core keyboard device. The min_key_code 
and max_key_code fields specify the least and greatest keycode that can be 
returned by the keyboard.
 
Each structure component has a corresponding mask bit that is used in function 
calls to indicate that the structure should be manipulated in some manner, such 
as allocating it or freeing it. These masks and their relationships to the 
fields in the XkbDescRec are shown in Table 1.

.TS
c s s
l l l
l l l.
Table 1 Mask Bits for XkbDescRec
_
Mask Bit	XkbDescRec Field	Value
_
XkbControlsMask	ctrls	(1L<<0)
XkbServerMapMask	server	(1L<<1)
XkbIClientMapMask	map	(1L<<2)
XkbIndicatorMapMask	indicators	(1L<<3)
XkbNamesMask	names	(1L<<4)
XkbCompatMapMask	compat	(1L<<5)
XkbGeometryMask	geom	(1L<<6)
XkbAllComponentsMask	All Fields	(0x7f)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XkbGetControls (__libmansuffix__),
.BR XkbGetNames (__libmansuffix__),
.BR XkbSetControls (__libmansuffix__),
.BR XkbSetNames (__libmansuffix__)
