.\" Copyright (c) 1999 - Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of
.\" the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this
.\" permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT
.\" OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
.\" HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
.\" FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
.\" WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" of the copyright holder.
.\"
.TH XkbSetAutoRepeatRate __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSetAutoRepeatRate \- Sets the attributes of the RepeatKeys control for a 
keyboard device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Bool XkbSetAutoRepeatRate
(
.I display,
.I device_spec,
.I timeout,
.I interval
)
.br
      Display *\fI display \fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fI device_spec \fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fI timeout \fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fI interval \fP\^;                  
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- display
connection to X server
.TP
.I \- device_spec
device to configure, or XkbUseCoreKbd
.TP
.I \- timeout
initial delay, ms
.TP
.I \- interval
delay between repeats, ms
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The core protocol allows only control over whether or not the entire keyboard or 
individual keys should auto-repeat when held down. RepeatKeys is a boolean 
control that extends this capability by adding control over the delay until a 
key begins to repeat and the rate at which it repeats. RepeatKeys is coupled 
with the core auto-repeat control: when RepeatKeys is enabled or disabled, the 
core auto-repeat is enabled or disabled and vice versa.

Auto-repeating keys are controlled by two attributes. The first, 
.I timeout, 
is the delay after the initial press of an auto-repeating key and the first 
generated repeat event. The second, 
.I interval, 
is the delay between all subsequent generated repeat events. As with all boolean 
controls, configuring the attributes that determine how the control operates 
does not automatically enable the control as a whole.

.I XkbSetAutoRepeatRate 
sends a request to the X server to configure the AutoRepeat control attributes 
to the values specified in 
.I timeout 
and 
.I interval.
 
.I XkbSetAutoRepeatRate 
does not wait for a reply; it normally returns True. Specifying a zero value for 
either 
.I timeout 
or 
.I interval 
causes the server to generate a BadValue protocol error. If a compatible version 
of the Xkb extension is not available in the server, 
.I XkbSetAutoRepeatRate 
returns False.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
True
The 
.I XkbSetAutoRepeatRate 
function returns True normally.
.TP 15
False
The 
.I XkbSetAutoRepeatRate 
function returns False if a compatible version of the Xkb extension is not 
available in the server.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 15
.B BadValue
An argument is out of range
