'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 - Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of
.\" the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this
.\" permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT
.\" OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
.\" HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
.\" FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
.\" WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" of the copyright holder.
.\"
.TH XkbSAActionSetCtrls __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSAActionSetCtrls \- Sets the 
.I ctrls0 
through 
I. ctrls3
fields of 
.I act
from 
.I ctrls
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B void XkbSAActionSetCtrls macro
(
.I act,
.I ctrls
)
.br
      XkbCtrlsAction \fIact\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIctrls\fP\^;      
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- act
action in which to set ctrls0-ctrls3
.TP
.I \- ctrls
value to set in ctrls0-ctrls3
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Actions associated with the XkbCtrlsAction structure change the state of the 
boolean controls.

The 
.I type 
field can have any one of the values shown in Table 1.

.TS
c s
l l
l lw(4i).
Table 1 Controls Action Types
_
Type	Effect
_
XkbSA_SetControls	T{
A key press enables any boolean controls specified in the ctrls fields that were 
not already enabled at 
the time of the key press.
A key release disables any controls enabled by the key press.
This action can cause XkbControlsNotify events.
T}
XkbSA_LockControls	T{
If the XkbSA_LockNoLock bit is not set in the flags field, a key press enables 
any controls specified in 
the ctrls fields that were not already enabled at the time of the key press.
.br
If the XkbSA_LockNoUnlock bit is not set in the flags field, a key release 
disables any controls 
specified in the ctrls fields that were not already disabled at the time of the 
key press.
.br
This action can cause XkbControlsNotify events.
T}
.TE

The 
.I flags 
field is composed of the bitwise inclusive OR of the masks shown in Table 2.

.TS
c s
l l
l lw(4i).
Table 2 Control Action Flags
_
Flag	Meaning
_
XkbSA_LockNoLock	T{
If set, and the action type is XkbSA_LockControls, the server only disables 
controls.
T}
XkbSA_LockNoUnlock	T{
If set, and the action type is XkbSA_LockControls, the server only enables 
controls.
T}
.TE

The XkbSA_SetControls action implements a key that enables a boolean control 
when pressed and disables it 
when released. The XkbSA_LockControls action is used to implement a key that 
toggles the state of a 
boolean control each time it is pressed and released. The XkbSA_LockNoLock and 
XkbSA_LockNoUnlock flags 
allow modifying the toggling behavior to only unlock or only lock the boolean 
control.

The 
.I ctrls0, ctrls1, ctrls2, 
and 
.I ctrls3 
fields represent the boolean controls in the 
.I enabled_ctrls 
field of the controls structure. Xkb macros, to convert between the two formats.

.I XkbSAActionSetCtrls 
sets the 
.I ctrls0 
through 
.I ctrls3 
fields of 
.I act 
from 
.I ctrls.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

    typedef struct _XkbCtrlsAction {
        unsigned char    type;    /\(** XkbSA_SetControls, XkbSA_LockControls */
        unsigned char    flags;   /\(** with type, controls enabling and disabling 
of controls */
        unsigned char    ctrls3;  /\(** ctrls0 through ctrls3 represent the boolean 
controls */
        unsigned char    ctrls2;  /\(** ctrls0 through ctrls3 represent the boolean 
controls */
        unsigned char    ctrls1;  /\(** ctrls0 through ctrls3 represent the boolean 
controls */
        unsigned char    ctrls0;  /\(** ctrls0 through ctrls3 represent the boolean 
controls */
    } XkbCtrlsAction;
.fi
