'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 - Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of
.\" the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this
.\" permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT
.\" OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
.\" HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
.\" FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
.\" WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" of the copyright holder.
.\"
.TH XkbSetPtrActionX __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XKB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XkbSetPtrActionX \- Sets the high_XXX and low_XXX fields of act from the signed 
integer value x
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B void XkbSetPtrActionX macro
(
.I act,
.I x
)
.br
      XkbPtrAction \fIact\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIx\fP\^;      
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I \- act
action in which to set X
.TP
.I \- x
new value to set
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Actions associated with the XkbPtrAction structure move the pointer when keys 
are pressed and released.

If the MouseKeys control is not enabled, KeyPress and KeyRelease events are 
treated as though the action is XkbSA_NoAction.

If the MouseKeys control is enabled, a server action of type XkbSA_MovePtr 
instructs the server to generate core pointer MotionNotify events rather than 
the usual KeyPress event, and the corresponding KeyRelease event disables any 
mouse keys timers that were created as a result of handling the XkbSA_MovePtr 
action.

The 
.I type 
field of the XkbPtrAction structure is always XkbSA_MovePtr.

The 
.I flags 
field is a bitwise inclusive OR of the masks shown in Table 1.

.TS
c s
l l
l lw(4i).
Table 1 Pointer Action Types
_
Action Type	Meaning
_
XkbSA_NoAcceleration	T{
If not set, and the MouseKeysAccel control is enabled, the KeyPress initiates a 
mouse keys timer for this key; every time the timer expires, the cursor moves.
T}
XkbSA_MoveAbsoluteX	T{
If set, the X portion of the structure specifies the new pointer X coordinate. 
Otherwise, the X portion is added to the current pointer X coordinate to 
determine the new pointer X coordinate.
T}
XkbSA_MoveAbsoluteY	T{
If set, the Y portion of the structure specifies the new pointer Y coordinate. 
Otherwise, the Y portion is added to the current pointer Y coordinate to 
determine the new pointer Y coordinate.
T}
.TE

Each of the X and Y coordinantes of the XkbPtrAction structure is composed of 
two signed 16-bit values, that is, the X coordinate is composed of 
.I high_XXX 
and 
.I low_XXX, 
and similarly for the Y coordinate. Xkb provides the following macros, to 
convert between a signed integer and two signed 16-bit values in XkbPtrAction 
structures.
.SH STRUCTURES
.LP
.nf

    typedef struct _XkbPtrAction {
        unsigned char    type;         /\(** XkbSA_MovePtr */
        unsigned char    flags;        /\(** determines type of pointer motion */
        unsigned char    high_XXX;     /\(** x coordinate, high bits*/
        unsigned char    low_XXX;      /\(** y coordinate, low bits */
        unsigned char    high_YYY;     /\(** x coordinate, high bits */
        unsigned char    low_YYY;      /\(** y coordinate, low bits */
    } XkbPtrAction;

.fi    
