.\"Copyright (C) 1989-95 GROUPE BULL
.\"
.\"Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\"of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to
.\"deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
.\"rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
.\"sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\"furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\"The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\"all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\"THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\"IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\"FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\"GROUPE BULL BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\"AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
.\"CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\"Except as contained in this notice, the name of GROUPE BULL shall not be
.\"used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings
.\"in this Software without prior written authorization from GROUPE BULL.
.\"
.\" $XFree86$
.nr )S 12
.TH SXPM 1
.PD
.ad b
.SH NAME
sxpm \- Show an XPM (X PixMap) file and/or convert XPM 1 or 2 files to XPM 3.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsxpm\fR
[\|\fB-d\fR displayname\|] 
[\|\fB-g\fR geometry\|] 
[\|\fB-hints\fR\|] 
[\|\fB-icon\fR filename\|] 
[\|\fB-plaid\| | \|\fRfilename\| | \|-\|]
[\|\fB-o\fR filename\| | \|\fB-o\fR -\|] 
[\|\fB-pcmap\fR\|] 
[\|\fB-closecolors\fR\|] 
[\|\fB-nod\fR\|] 
[\|\fB-nom\fR\|] 
[\|\fB-mono | -grey4 | -grey | -color\fR\|] 
[\|\fB-sc\fR symbol color\|] 
[\|\fB-sp\fR symbol pixel\|] 
[\|\fB-cp\fR color pixel\|] 
[\|\fB-rgb\fR filename\|] 
[\|\fB-v\fR\|] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fIsxpm\fP program can be used to view any XPM (version 1, 2, or 3) file
and/or to convert a file from XPM1 or XPM2 to XPM version 3. If \fIsxpm\fP is
run with any dummy option specified, the usage is displayed. If no geometry is
specified, the show window will have the size of the read pixmap. Pressing the
key Q in the window will quit the program.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-d \fIdisplay\fP
Specifies the display to connect to.
.TP 8
.B \-g \fIgeom\fP
Window geometry (default is pixmap's size).
.TP 8
.B \-hints
Set ResizeInc for window.
.TP 8
.B \-icon \fIfilename\fP
Set icon to pixmap created from the file \fIfilename\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-plaid
Show the plaid pixmap which is stored as data\fP.
.TP 8
.B \fIfilename\fP
Read from the file \fIfilename\fP and from standard input if \fIfilename\fP is '-'.
If no input is specified sxpm reads from standard input.
.TP 8
.B \-o \fIfilename\fP
Write to the file \fIfilename\fP (overwrite if it already exists) and to
standard output if \fIfilename\fP is '-'.
.TP 8
.B \-mono
Use the colors specified for a monochrome visual.
.TP 8
.B \-grey4
Use the colors specified for a 4 color greyscale visual.
.TP 8
.B \-grey
Use the colors specified for a greyscale visual.
.TP 8
.B \-color
Use the colors specified for a color visual.
.TP 8
.B \-pcmap
Use a private colormap.
.TP 8
.B \-closecolors
Try to use "close colors" before reverting to other visuals.
.TP 8
.B \-nod
Do not display the pixmap in a window.  (Useful when using as converter)
.TP 8
.B \-nom
Do not use the clipmask if there is any.
.TP 8
.B \-sc \fIsymbol colorname\fP
Override default color to \fIsymbol\fP to \fIcolorname\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-sp \fIsymbol pixelvalue\fP
Override default color to \fIsymbol\fP to \fIpixelvalue\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-cp \fIcolorname pixelvalue\fP
Override default color to \fIcolorname\fP to \fIpixelvalue\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-rgb \fIfilename\fP
Search color names in the file \fIfilename\fP and write them out instead of
the rgb values.
.TP 8
.B \-v
Verbose - to print out extensions (stderr).


.SH KNOWN BUGS
Some window managers may not accept a pixmap which is not a bitmap as icon
because this does not respect ICCCM, many of the well known ones will accept
it though.

.SH AUTHOR
Arnaud Le Hors    (lehors@sophia.inria.fr)
.br
Bull Research France
.br
Copyright (C) 1989-95 by Groupe Bull.
