.\" $Xorg: XtAppAC.man,v 1.3 2000/08/17 19:41:57 cpqbld Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
.\" included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/doc/man/Xt/XtAppAC.man,v 1.3 2001/02/09 03:47:49 tsi Exp $
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtApp-Add-Converter XtAdd-Converter wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XtAppAddConverter __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XT COMPATIBILITY FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtAppAddConverter, XtAddConverter \- register resource converter
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XtAppAddConverter(XtAppContext \fIapp_context\fP, String \fIfrom_type\fP,
String \fIto_type\fP, XtConverter \fIconverter\fP, XtConvertArgList
\fIconvert_args\fP, Cardinal \fInum_args\fP); 
.HP
void XtAddConverter(String \fIfrom_type\fP, String \fIto_type\fP, XtConverter
\fIconverter\fP, XtConvertArgList \fIconvert_args\fP, Cardinal
\fInum_args\fP); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIapp_context\fP 1i
Specifies the application context.
.IP \fIconverter\fP 1i
Specifies the type converter procedure.
.IP \fIconvert_args\fP 1i
Specifies how to compute the additional arguments to the converter or NULL.
.IP \fIfrom_type\fP 1i
Specifies the source type.
.IP \fInum_args\fP 1i
Specifies the number of additional arguments to the converter or zero.
.IP \fIto_type\fP 1i
Specifies the destination type.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ZN XtAppAddConverter
is equivalent in function to
.ZN XtAppSetTypeConverter
with \fIcache_type\fP equal to
.ZN XtCacheAll
for old-format type converters. It has been superseded by
.ZN XtAppSetTypeConverter .
.LP
.ZN XtAddConverter
is equivalent in function to
.ZN XtSetTypeConverter
with \fIcache_type\fP equal to
.ZN XtCacheAll
for old-format type converters. It has been superseded by
.ZN XtSetTypeConverter .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtConvert(3Xt),
XtStringConversionWarning(3Xt)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
