.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), 
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, 
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the 
.\" Software furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL 
.\" THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, 
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF 
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE 
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall not 
.\" be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other 
.\" dealing in this Software without prior written authorization from the 
.\" X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtError-Msg XtSet-Error-Msg-Handler XtSet-Warning-Msg-Handler XtWarning-Msg wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XtErrorMsg __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XT COMPATIBILITY FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtErrorMsg, XtSetErrorMsgHandler, XtWarningMsg, XtSetWarningMsgHandler \- high-level error handlers
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XtErrorMsg(String \fIname\fP, String \fItype\fP, String \fIclass\fP,
String \fIdefault\fP, String *\fIparams\fP, Cardinal *\fInum_params\fP); 
.HP
void XtSetErrorMsgHandler(XtErrorMsgHandler \fImsg_handler\fP); 
.HP
void XtSetWarningMsgHandler(XtErrorMsgHandler \fImsg_handler\fP); 
.HP
void XtWarningMsg(String \fIname\fP, String \fItype\fP, String \fIclass\fP,
String \fIdefault\fP, String *\fIparams\fP, Cardinal *\fInum_params\fP); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.ds Cl
.IP \fIclass\fP 1i
Specifies the resource class\*(Cl.
.IP \fIdefault\fP 1i
Specifies the default message to use\*(Dm.
.IP \fIname\fP 1i
Specifies the general kind of error.
.IP \fItype\fP 1i
Specifies the detailed name of the error.
.ds Mh fatal error procedure, which should not return \
or the nonfatal error procedure, which usually returns
.IP \fImsg_handler\fP 1i
Specifies the new \*(Mh.
.IP \fInum_params\fP 1i
Specifies the number of values in the parameter list.
.IP \fIparams\fP 1i
Specifies a pointer to a list of values to be stored in the message.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtErrorMsg
function has been superceded by
.ZN XtAppErrorMsg .
.LP
The
.ZN XtSetErrorMsgHandler
function has been superceded by
.ZN XtAppSetErrorMsgHandler .
.LP
The
.ZN XtSetWarningMsgHandler
function has been superceded by
.ZN XtAppSetWarningMsgHandler .
.LP
The
.ZN XtWarningMsg
function has been superceded by
.ZN XtAppWarningMsg
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XtAppErrorMsg (__libmansuffix__)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
