.\" $Xorg: XtOwnSel.man,v 1.3 2000/08/17 19:42:02 cpqbld Exp $
.\" $XdotOrg: $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
.\" included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/doc/man/Xt/XtOwnSel.man,v 1.3 2001/02/09 03:47:51 tsi Exp $
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtOwn-Selection XtOwn-Selection-Incremental XtDisown-Selection wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XtOwnSelection __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtOwnSelection, XtOwnSelectionIncremental, XtDisownSelection \- set selection owner
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Boolean XtOwnSelection(Widget \fIw\fP, Atom \fIselection\fP, Time \fItime\fP,
XtConvertSelectionProc \fIconvert_proc\fP, XtLoseSelectionProc
\fIlose_selection\fP, XtSelectionDoneProc \fIdone_proc\fP); 
.HP
Boolean XtOwnSelectionIncremental(Widget \fIw\fP, Atom \fIselection\fP, Time
\fItime\fP, XtConvertSelectionIncrProc \fIconvert_callback\fP,
XtLoseSelectionIncrProc \fIlose_callback\fP, XtSelectionDoneIncrProc
\fIdone_callback\fP, XtCancelConvertSelectionProc \fIcancel_callback\fP,
XtPointer \fIclient_data\fP); 
.HP
void XtDisownSelection(Widget \fIw\fP, Atom \fIselection\fP, Time \fItime\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIconvert_proc\fP 1i
Specifies the procedure that is to be called whenever someone requests the 
current value of the selection.
.IP \fIdone_proc\fP 1i
Specifies the procedure that is called 
after the requestor has received the selection or NULL if the owner is not
interested in being called back.
.IP \fIlose_selection\fP 1i
Specifies the procedure that is to be called whenever the widget has 
lost selection ownership or NULL if the owner is not interested in being 
called back.
.IP \fIselection\fP 1i
Specifies an atom that describes the type of the selection (for example,
.ZN XA_PRIMARY , 
.ZN XA_SECONDARY , 
or
.ZN XA_CLIPBOARD ).
.ds Ti ownership should commence or is to be relinquished
.IP \fItime\fP 1i
Specifies the timestamp that indicates when the selection \*(Ti.
.ds Wi that wishes to become the owner or to relinquish ownership
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies the widget \*(Wi.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtOwnSelection
function informs the \*(xI selection mechanism that a
widget believes it owns a selection.
It returns 
.ZN True 
if the widget has successfully become the owner and 
.ZN False
otherwise.
The widget may fail to become the owner if some other widget 
has asserted ownership at a time later than this widget.
Note that widgets can lose selection ownership either 
because someone else asserted later ownership of the selection 
or because the widget voluntarily gave up ownership of the selection.
Also note that the lose_selection procedure is not called 
if the widget fails to obtain selection ownership in the first place.
.LP
The
.ZN XtOwnSelectionIncremental
procedure informs the Intrinsics incremental selection mechanism that
the specified widget wishes to own the selection. It returns
.ZN True 
if the specified widget successfully becomes the selection owner or
.ZN False
otherwise. For more information about \fIselection\fP, \fItarget\fP,
and \fItime\fP, see Section 2.6 of the \fIInter-Client Communication
Conventions Manual\fP.
.LP
A widget that becomes the selection owner using
.ZN XtOwnSelectionIncremental
may use
.ZN XtDisownSelection
to relinquish selection ownership.
.LP
The
.ZN XtDisownSelection
function informs the \*(xI selection mechanism that
the specified widget is to lose ownership of the selection.
If the widget does not currently own the selection either 
because it lost the selection 
or because it never had the selection to begin with,
.ZN XtDisownSelection
does nothing.
.LP
After a widget has called
.ZN XtDisownSelection ,
its convert procedure is not called even if a request arrives later 
with a timestamp during the period that this widget owned the selection.
However, its done procedure will be called if a conversion that started 
before the call to
.ZN XtDisownSelection
finishes after the call to
.ZN XtDisownSelection .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtAppGetSelectionTimeout(3Xt),
XtGetSelectionValue(3Xt)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
