.\" $Xorg: XtSetLangP.man,v 1.3 2000/08/17 19:42:03 cpqbld Exp $
.\" $XdotOrg: $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
.\" included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/doc/man/Xt/XtSetLangP.man,v 1.4 2003/05/29 21:48:05 herrb Exp $
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtSet-Language-Proc wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XtSetLanguageProc __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtSetLanguageProc \- set the language procedure
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Widget XtSetLanguageProc(XtAppContext \fIapp_context\fP, XtLanguageProc
\fIproc\fP, XtPointer \fIclient_data\fP); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIapp_context\fP 1i
Specifies the application context in which the language procedure
is to be used, or NULL.
.LP
.IP \fIproc\fP 1i
Specifies the language procedure, or NULL.
.LP
.IP \fIclient_data\fP 1i
Specifies additional client data to be passed to the language procedure
when it is called.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ZN XtSetLanguageProc
sets the language procedure that will be called from
.ZN XtDisplayInitialize
for all subsequent Displays initialized in the specified application
context. If \fIapp_context\fP is NULL, the specified language procedure
is registered in all application contexts created by the calling process,
including any future application contexts that may be created. If 
\fIproc\fP is NULL a default language procedure is registered.
.ZN XtSetLanguageProc
returns the previously registered language procedure. If a language
procedure has not yet been registered, the return value is unspecified
but if this return value is used in a subsequent call to
.ZN XtSetLanguageProc ,
it will cause the default language procedure to be registered.
.LP
The default language procedure does the following:
.IP \(bu 5
Sets the locale according to the environment. On ANSI C-based systems
this is done by calling
.ZN setlocale (
.ZN LC_ALL ,
language ). If an error is encountered a warning message is issued with
.ZN XtWarning .
.IP \(bu 5
Calls
.ZN XSupportsLocale 
to verify that the current locale is supported. If the locale is not
supported, a warning message is issued with
.ZN XtWarning
and the locale is set to ``C''.
.IP \(bu 5
Calls
.ZN XSetLocaleModifiers
specifying the empty string.
.IP \(bu 5
Returns the value of the current locale. On ANSI C-based systems this
is the return value from a final call to
.ZN setlocale (
.ZN LC_ALL ,
NULL ).
.LP
A client wishing to use this mechanism to establish locale can do so
by calling
.ZN XtSetLanguageProc
prior to 
.ZN XtDisplayInitialize.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
