.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), 
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, 
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the 
.\" Software furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL 
.\" THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, 
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF 
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE 
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall not 
.\" be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other 
.\" dealing in this Software without prior written authorization from the 
.\" X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtSet-Selection-Parameters XtGet-Selection-Parameters wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XtSetSelectionParameters __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtSetSelectionParameters \- specify target parameters for a selection request with a single target
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
void XtSetSelectionParameters(Widget \fIrequestor\fP, Atom \fIselection\fP,
Atom \fItype\fP, XtPointer \fIvalue\fP, unsigned long \fIlength\fP, int
\fIformat\fP); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIrequestor\fP 1i
Specifies the widget making the request. Must be of class Core or any
subclass thereof.
.IP \fIselection\fP 1i
Specifies the atom that names the selection.
.IP \fItype\fP 1i
Specifies the type of the property in which the parameters will be passed.
.IP \fIvalue\fP 1i
Specifies a pointer to the parameters.
.IP \fIlength\fP 1i
Specifies the number of elements containing data in \fIvalue\fP, each
element of a sized indicated by \fIformat\fP.
.IP \fIformat\fP 1i
Specifies the size in bits of the data in the elements of \fIvalue\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The specified parameters will be copied and stored in a new property of
the specified type and format on the requestor's window. To initiate a
selection request with a target and these parameters, a subsequent call to
.ZN XtGetSelectionValue
or to
.ZN XtGetSelectionValueIncremental
specifying the same requestor widget and selection atom will generate a
.ZN ConvertSelection
request referring referring to the property containing the parameters. If
.ZN XtSetSelectionParameters
is called more than once with the same widget and selection without a
call to specify a request, the most recently specified parameters are
used in the subsequent request.
.LP
The possible values of \fIformat\fP may be 8, 16, or 32. If the \fIformat\fP
is 8, the elements of \fIvalue\fP are assumed to be sizeof(char); if 16,
sizeof(short); if 32, sizeof(long).
.LP
To generate a MULTIPLE target request with parameters for any of the
multiple targets of the selection request, precede individual calls to
.ZN XtGetSelectionValue
and
.ZN XtGetSelectionValueIncremental
with corresponding individual calls to
.ZN XtSetSelectionParameters ,
and enclose these all within
.ZN XtCreateSelectionRequest
and
.ZN XtSendSelectionRequest .
.ZN XtGetSelectionValues 
and
.ZN XtGetSelectionValuesIncremental
cannot be used  to make selection requests with parameterized targets.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtGetSelectionParameters(__libmansuffix__)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
