.\"Copyright (C) 1998 Arnaud LE HORS
.\"
.\"Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\"of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to
.\"deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
.\"rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
.\"sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\"furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\"The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\"all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\"THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\"IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\"FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\"Arnaud LE HORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
.\"IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
.\"CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\"Except as contained in this notice, the name of Arnaud LE HORS shall not be
.\"used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings
.\"in this Software without prior written authorization from Arnaud LE HORS.
.\"
.nr )S 12
.TH CXPM 1
.PD
.ad b
.SH NAME
cxpm \- Check an XPM (X PixMap) file - XPM 1, 2, or 3.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcxpm\fR
[\|\fIfilename\fP\|] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fBcxpm\fP program can be used to check the format of any XPM (version 1, 2,
or 3) file. On error, unlike \fBsxpm\fR, \fBcxpm\fR prints out an error message
indicating where the parser choked. This should help finding out what's wrong
with an XPM file but do not expect too much from it though. This is not even
close from being some kind of lint program for XPM. First, it stops at the
first error it encounters - so several fix and retry cycles may be necessary to
get your file to parse successfully. Second, \fBcxpm\fP only cares about
the format. If, for instance, your pixmap uses too many colors for your system
you still may experience difficulties displaying it. Be warned.
.PP
When no \fIfilename\fP is given \fBcxpm\fR reads from the standard input.
.SH AUTHOR
Arnaud Le Hors    (lehors@sophia.inria.fr)
.br
Copyright (C) 1998 by Arnaud LE HORS.
