.\" $XdotOrg: $
.\" 
.\" Copyright \(co Digital Equipment Corporation, 1996
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this
.\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
.\" provided that the above copyright notice and this permission
.\" notice appear in all copies.  Digital Equipment Corporation
.\" makes no representations about the suitability for any purpose
.\" of the information in this document.  This documentation is
.\" provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1999, 2005 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute,
.\" sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
.\" conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
.\" included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the names of the copyright holders
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from said copyright holders.
.\"
.\" X Window System is a trademark of The Open Group.
.\" 
.TH DPMSQueryExtension __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
DPMSQueryExtension \- queries the X server to determine the availability
of the DPMS Extension
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR \&.\&.\&. ] \fIfile\fR \&.\&.\&. -\fBlXext\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR \&.\&.\&. ]
\&#include <X11/extensions/dpms.h>
.HP
.B Bool DPMSQueryExtension
(
.br
      Display \fI*display\fP\^,
.br
      int \fI*event_base\fP\^,
.br
      int \fI*error_base\fP\^ 
);
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I display
Specifies the connection to the X server
.TP
.I event_base
Specifies the return location for the assigned base event
.TP
.I error_base
Specifies the return location for the assigned base error
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The 
.I DPMSQueryExtension 
function queries the X server to determine the availability of the
Display Power Management Signaling (DPMS) 
Extension.  If the extension is available, it returns TRUE, and the
.I event_base
and 
.I error_base
are set to the base event and error numbers, respectively.  Otherwise, the 
return value is FALSE, and the 
values of
.I event_base
and 
.I error_base 
are undefined.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP 15
TRUE
The 
.I DPMSQueryExtension 
function returns TRUE if the extension is available, 
and
.I event_base
and 
.I error_base
are set to the base event number and base error number for the extension, 
respectively.
.TP 15
FALSE
The 
.I DPMSQueryExtension 
function returns FALSE if extension is not available, and the values of
.I event_base
and 
.I error_base 
are undefined.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DPMSGetVersion (__libmansuffix__)
