.\" $XdotOrg: $
.\" 
.\" Copyright \(co 1986-1997   The Open Group    All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1999, 2005 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute,
.\" sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
.\" conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
.\" included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the names of the copyright holders
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from said copyright holders.
.\"
.\" X Window System is a trademark of The Open Group.
.\" 
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.TH XcupQueryVersion __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XcupQueryVersion \- Returns TOG-CUP protocol version supported by the X server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR \&.\&.\&. ] \fIfile\fR \&.\&.\&. -\fBlXext\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR \&.\&.\&. ]
\&#include <X11/extensions/Xcup.h>
.HP
Status \fBXcupQueryVersion\fP\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, 
int *\fImajor_version_return\fP\^, int *\fIminor_version_return\fP\^);
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server
.IP \fImajor_version_return\fP 1i
Returns the major version supported by the server
.IP \fIminor_version_return\fP 1i
Returns the minor version supported by the server
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.ZN XcupQueryVersion 
sets 
.I major_version_return 
and 
.I minor_version_return 
to the major and minor TOG-CUP protocol version supported by the
server. If the TOG-CUP library is compatible with the version returned
by the server, it returns nonzero. If the server does not support the TOG-CUP
extension, or if there was an error during communications with the
server, or if the server and library protocol versions are
incompatible, it returns zero. No other Xcup functions may be called
before this function. If a client violates this rule, the effects of
all subsequent Xcup calls that it makes are undefined.
.LP
To get the list of reserved colormap entries, use 
.ZN XcupGetReservedColormapEntries.
.LP
To allocate one or more read-only color cells with RGB values, use 
.ZN XcupStoreColors.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XcupGetReservedColormapEntries (3Xext),
.BR XcupStoreColors (3Xext),
.br
\fIColormap Utilization Policy and Extension\fP
