.\" $XdotOrg: $
.\" 
.\" Copyright \(co 1986-1997   The Open Group    All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1999, 2005 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute,
.\" sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
.\" conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
.\" included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the names of the copyright holders
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from said copyright holders.
.\" 
.\" X Window System is a trademark of The Open Group.
.\" 
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.TH XcupStoreColors __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XcupStoreColors \- initialize shareable colormap entries at specific locations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR \&.\&.\&. ] \fIfile\fR \&.\&.\&. -\fBlXext\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR \&.\&.\&. ]
\&#include <X11/extensions/Xcup.h>
.HP
Status \fBXcupStoreColors\fP\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Colormap \fIcolormap\fP\^,
XColor *\fIcolors_in_out\fP\^, int \fIncolors\fP\^);
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server
.IP \fIcolormap\fP 1i
Specifies the colormap
.IP \fIcolors_in_out\fP 1i
Specifies and returns the values actually used in the colormap
.IP \fIncolors\fP 1i
Specifies the number of items in colors_in_out
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The 
.ZN XcupStoreColors 
function changes the colormap entries of the pixel values in the pixel
members of the XColor structures. The colormap entries are allocated
as if an AllocColor has been used instead, i.e. the colors are
read-only (shareable).
.ZN XcupStoreColors 
returns the number of colors that were successfully allocated in the colormap.
.LP
A 
.ZN Value 
error is generated if a pixel is not a valid index into the colormap. A
.ZN BadMatch 
error is generated if the colormap does not belong to a GrayScale,
PseudoColor, or DirectColor visual.
.LP
Applications which allocate many colors in a screen's default colormap, e.g.
a color-cube or a gray-ramp, should allocate them with 
.ZN XCupStoreColors .
By using XCupStoreColors the colors will be allocated sharable (read-only) 
and any other application which allocates the same color will share that 
color cell.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XcupQueryVersion (3Xext),
.BR XcupGetReservedColormapEntries (3Xext),
.br
\fIColormap Utilization Policy and Extension\fP
