.\" $XdotOrg: $
.\" 
.\" Copyright \(co 1986-1997   The Open Group    All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1999, 2005 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute,
.\" sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
.\" conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
.\" included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
.\" OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR
.\" THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the names of the copyright holders
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from said copyright holders.
.\" 
.\" X Window System is a trademark of The Open Group.
.\" 
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.TH XCUP __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XcupGetReservedColormapEntries \- list colormap entries reserved by the system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR \&.\&.\&. ] \fIfile\fR \&.\&.\&. -\fBlXext\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR \&.\&.\&. ]
\&#include <X11/extensions/Xcup.h>
.HP
Status \fBXcupGetReservedColormapEntries\fP\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, 
int \fIscreen\fP\^, XColor **\fIcolors_out\fP\^, int *\fIncolors\fP\^);
.if n .ti +5n
.if t .ti +.5i
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIscreen\fP 1i
Screen number on the host server.
.IP \fIcolors_out\fP 1i
Returns the values reserved by the server.
.IP \fIncolors\fP 1i
Returns the number of items in \fIcolors_out\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The 
.ZN XcupGetReservedColormapEntries 
function returns a list of colormap entries (pixels) that are reserved
by the system. This list will, at a minimum, contain entries for the 
BlackPixel and WhitePixel of the specified screen. Use 
.ZN XFree 
to free 
.I colors_out.
.LP
To minimize colormap flash, an application which installs its own private
colormap should query the special colors by calling
.ZN XCupGetReservedColormapEntries , 
and can then store those entries (in the
proper location) in its private colormap using 
.ZN XCupStoreColors .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR XcupQueryVersion (3Xext),
.BR XcupStoreColors (3Xext),
.BR XFree (3X11),
.br
\fIColormap Utilization Policy and Extension\fP
