.\" $Xorg: XdbeQuer.man,v 1.3 2000/08/17 19:41:55 cpqbld Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995  Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), 
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation 
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, 
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the 
.\" Software furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL 
.\" HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, 
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF 
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE 
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the Hewlett-Packard Company shall not 
.\" be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other 
.\" dealing in this Software without prior written authorization from the 
.\" Hewlett-Packard Company.
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/doc/man/Xext/dbe/XdbeQuer.man,v 3.4 2001/01/27 18:20:20 dawes Exp $
.\"
.TH XdbeQueryExtension __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XdbeQueryExtension - returns the version of DBE supported by the server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\&#include <X11/extensions/Xdbe.h>

Status XdbeQueryExtension(
    Display *dpy,
    int     *major_version_return,
    int     *minor_version_return)
.SH DESCRIPTION
Sets
.I major_version_return
and
.I minor_version_return
to the major and minor
DBE protocol version supported by the server.  If the DBE library is 
compatible with the version returned by the server, this function returns
non-zero.  If
.I dpy
does not support the DBE extension, or if there was an error
during communication with the server, or if the server and library protocol
versions are incompatible, this function returns zero.  No other Xdbe functions
may be called before this function.  If a client violates this rule, the
effects of all subsequent Xdbe calls that it makes are undefined.
.SH SEE ALSO
DBE,
.I XdbeAllocateBackBufferName(),
.I XdbeBeginIdiom(),
.I XdbeDeallocateBackBufferName(),
.I XdbeEndIdiom(),
.I XdbeFreeVisualInfo(),
.I XdbeGetBackBufferAttributes(),
.I XdbeGetVisualInfo(),
.I XdbeSwapBuffers().

