.TH ucs2any __appmansuffix__ __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
ucs2any \- generate BDF fonts containing subsets of ISO 10646-1 codepoints
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ucs2any
[
.B +d
|
.B -d
]
.I source-name
{
.I mapping-file
.I registry-encoding
}
\&.\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ucs2any
allows one to generate from an ISO 10646-1 encoded BDF font other BDF fonts
in any possible encoding.  This way, one can derive from a single
ISO 10646-1 master font a whole set of 8-bit fonts in all ISO 8859 and
various other encodings.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B +d
puts DEC VT100 graphics characters in the C0 range (default for upright,
character-cell fonts).
.TP
.B \-d
omits DEC VT100 graphics characters from the C0 range (default for all
font types except upright, character-cell fonts).
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
.I source-name
is the name of an ISO 10646-1 encoded BDF file.
.TP
.I mapping-file
is the name of a character set table like those at
.BR <ftp://ftp.unicode.org/Public/MAPPINGS/> .
These files can also typically be found installed in the
.I /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/util/
directory.
.TP
.I registry-encoding
are the CHARSET_REGISTRY and CHARSET_ENCODING field values for the font
name (XLFD) of the target font, separated by a hyphen.
.PP
Any number of
.I mapping-file
and
.I registry-encoding
operand pairs may be specified.
.SH EXAMPLE
The command
.RS
ucs2any 6x13.bdf 8859-1.TXT iso8859-1 8859-2.TXT iso8859-2
.RE
will generate the files
.I 6x13-iso8859-1.bdf
and
.IR 6x13-iso8859-2.bdf .
.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
Hopefully a future release will have a facility similar to
.B ucs2any
built into the server, and reencode ISO 10646-1 on the fly, because
storing the same fonts in many different encodings is clearly a waste of
storage capacity.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bdftruncate (1)
.SH AUTHOR
.B ucs2any
was written by Markus Kuhn.
.PP
Branden Robinson wrote this manual page, originally for the Debian Project.
