.\" $XFree86$
.\" Copyright 2002 Red Hat Inc., Durham, North Carolina.
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation on the rights to use, copy, modify, merge,
.\" publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software,
.\" and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
.\" subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the
.\" next paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial
.\" portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
.\" NON-INFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL RED HAT AND/OR THEIR SUPPLIERS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
.\" CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Authors:
.\"   Rickard E. (Rik) Faith <faith@redhat.com>
.\"
.TH xdmxconfig 1 __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
xdmxconfig - a graphical configuration tool for Xdmx configuration files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xdmxconfig
[filename]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xdmxconfig
reads, edits, and writes configuration files for the Xdmx server.  The
grammar for the configuration file is specified in the Xdmx(1) manual
page.
.PP
To start from scratch, create a "New Global" and specify the name and
overall dimensions for the configuration.  Then use "New Display" to
enter more displays.
.PP
If there is more than one configuration, the configuration name button
will bring up a selection menu.
.PP
In the right-hand pannel, the left mouse button will move the
highlighted display at "tool resolution"; the middle mouse button will
move the highlighted display by a single pixel (at "wall resolution");
and the right mouse button will bring up a menu allowing the highlighted
display to be edited or deleted.  The arrow keys will also move the
highlighted display by a single pixel.
.SH BUGS
Currently, entries with the
.B wall
keyword are not editable, but will be preserved in the new output file.
The tool will quit when requested by the user, even if a configuration
file has not been written out (i.e., without warning).  The menu
interaction should be improved (menu entries that don't currently work
should be greyed-out, for example).  The Help button does not work.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Xdmx(1), vdltodmx(1)
