'\" t
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\" $XFree86: xc/doc/man/X11/XCKCntrl.man,v 1.4 2003/04/28 22:17:54 herrb Exp $
.\" $XdotOrg: lib/X11/man/XChangeKeyboardControl.man,v 1.2 2004-04-23 18:42:09 eich Exp $
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
'\" t
.TH XChangeKeyboardControl __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XChangeKeyboardControl, XGetKeyboardControl, XAutoRepeatOn, XAutoRepeatOff, XBell, XQueryKeymap, XKeyboardControl \- manipulate keyboard settings and keyboard control structure
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XChangeKeyboardControl\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP, unsigned long
\fIvalue_mask\fP\^, XKeyboardControl *\fIvalues\fP\^); 
.HP
int XGetKeyboardControl\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP, XKeyboardState
*\fIvalues_return\fP\^); 
.HP
int XAutoRepeatOn\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^); 
.HP
int XAutoRepeatOff\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^); 
.HP
int XBell\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP, int \fIpercent\fP\^); 
.HP
int XQueryKeymap\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP, char \fIkeys_return\fP[32]\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIkeys_return\fP 1i
Returns an array of bytes that identifies which keys are pressed down.
Each bit represents one key of the keyboard.
.IP \fIpercent\fP 1i
Specifies the volume for the bell,
which can range from \-100 to 100 inclusive. 
.IP \fIvalue_mask\fP 1i
Specifies which controls to change.
This mask is the bitwise inclusive OR of the valid control mask bits.
.IP \fIvalues\fP 1i
Specifies one value for each bit set to 1 in the mask.
.IP \fIvalues_return\fP 1i
Returns the current keyboard controls in the specified
.ZN XKeyboardState 
structure.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XChangeKeyboardControl
function controls the keyboard characteristics defined by the
.ZN XKeyboardControl
structure.
The value_mask argument specifies which values are to be changed.
.LP
.ZN XChangeKeyboardControl
can generate
.ZN BadMatch
and
.ZN BadValue 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XGetKeyboardControl
function returns the current control values for the keyboard to the
.ZN XKeyboardState
structure.
.LP
The
.ZN XAutoRepeatOn
function turns on auto-repeat for the keyboard on the specified display.
.LP
The
.ZN XAutoRepeatOff
function turns off auto-repeat for the keyboard on the specified display.
.LP
The
.ZN XBell
function rings the bell on the keyboard on the specified display, if possible.
The specified volume is relative to the base volume for the keyboard.
If the value for the percent argument is not in the range \-100 to 100
inclusive, a
.ZN BadValue
error results.
The volume at which the bell rings
when the percent argument is nonnegative is:
.IP
base \- [(base * percent) / 100] + percent
.LP
The volume at which the bell rings
when the percent argument is negative is:
.IP
base + [(base * percent) / 100]
.LP
To change the base volume of the bell, use
.ZN XChangeKeyboardControl .
.LP
.ZN XBell
can generate a
.ZN BadValue 
error.
.LP
The
.ZN XQueryKeymap
function returns a bit vector for the logical state of the keyboard, 
where each bit set to 1 indicates that the corresponding key is currently 
pressed down.
The vector is represented as 32 bytes.
Byte N (from 0) contains the bits for keys 8N to 8N + 7 
with the least significant bit in the byte representing key 8N.
.LP
Note that the logical state of a device (as seen by client applications)
may lag the physical state if device event processing is frozen.
.SH STRUCTURES
The
.ZN XKeyboardControl
structure contains:
.LP
.LP
/\&* Mask bits for ChangeKeyboardControl */
.TS
lw(.5i) lw(2.5i) lw(.8i).
T{
\&#define
T}	T{
.ZN KBKeyClickPercent
T}	T{
(1L<<0)
T}
T{
\&#define
T}	T{
.ZN KBBellPercent
T}	T{
(1L<<1)
T}
T{
\&#define
T}	T{
.ZN KBBellPitch
T}	T{
(1L<<2)
T}
T{
\&#define
T}	T{
.ZN KBBellDuration
T}	T{
(1L<<3)
T}
T{
\&#define
T}	T{
.ZN KBLed
T}	T{
(1L<<4)
T}
T{
\&#define
T}	T{
.ZN KBLedMode
T}	T{
(1L<<5)
T}
T{
\&#define
T}	T{
.ZN KBKey
T}	T{
(1L<<6)
T}
T{
\&#define
T}	T{
.ZN KBAutoRepeatMode
T}	T{
(1L<<7)
T}
.TE
.IN "XKeyboardControl" "" "@DEF@"
.Ds 0
.TA .5i 2.5i
.ta .5i 2.5i
/\&* Values */

typedef struct {
	int key_click_percent;
	int bell_percent;
	int bell_pitch;
	int bell_duration;
	int led;
	int led_mode;	/\&* LedModeOn, LedModeOff */
	int key;
	int auto_repeat_mode;	/\&* AutoRepeatModeOff, AutoRepeatModeOn, 
                            	AutoRepeatModeDefault */
} XKeyboardControl;
.De
.LP
The key_click_percent member sets the volume for key clicks between 0 (off) 
and 100 (loud) inclusive, if possible.  
A setting of \-1 restores the default.
Other negative values generate a
.ZN BadValue
error.
.LP
The bell_percent sets the base volume for the bell between 0 (off) and 100
(loud) inclusive, if possible.  
A setting of \-1 restores the default.
Other negative values generate a
.ZN BadValue
error.
The bell_pitch member sets the pitch (specified in Hz) of the bell, if possible.
A setting of \-1 restores the default.
Other negative values generate a
.ZN BadValue
error.
The bell_duration member sets the duration of the
bell specified in milliseconds, if possible.  
A setting of \-1 restores the default.
Other negative values generate a
.ZN BadValue
error.
.LP
If both the led_mode and led members are specified,
the state of that LED is changed, if possible.  
The led_mode member can be set to
.ZN LedModeOn
or
.ZN LedModeOff .
If only led_mode is specified, the state of
all LEDs are changed, if possible.  
At most 32 LEDs numbered from one are supported. 
No standard interpretation of LEDs is defined.
If led is specified without led_mode, a
.ZN BadMatch
error results. 
.LP
If both the auto_repeat_mode and key members are specified, 
the auto_repeat_mode of that key is changed (according to
.ZN AutoRepeatModeOn ,
.ZN AutoRepeatModeOff ,
or
.ZN AutoRepeatModeDefault ),
if possible.
If only auto_repeat_mode is
specified, the global auto_repeat_mode for the entire keyboard is
changed, if possible, and does not affect the per-key settings.
If a key is specified without an auto_repeat_mode, a
.ZN BadMatch
error results.
Each key has an individual mode of whether or not it should auto-repeat
and a default setting for the mode.
In addition,
there is a global mode of whether auto-repeat should be enabled or not
and a default setting for that mode.
When global mode is
.ZN AutoRepeatModeOn ,
keys should obey their individual auto-repeat modes.
When global mode is
.ZN AutoRepeatModeOff ,
no keys should auto-repeat.
An auto-repeating key generates alternating
.ZN KeyPress
and
.ZN KeyRelease
events.
When a key is used as a modifier,
it is desirable for the key not to auto-repeat,
regardless of its auto-repeat setting.
.LP
The
.ZN XKeyboardState
structure contains:
.LP
.Ds 0
.TA .5i 
.ta .5i
typedef struct {
	int key_click_percent;
	int bell_percent;
	unsigned int bell_pitch, bell_duration;
	unsigned long led_mask;
	int global_auto_repeat;
	char auto_repeats[32];
} XKeyboardState;
.De
.LP
For the LEDs, 
the least significant bit of led_mask corresponds to LED one,
and each bit set to 1 in led_mask indicates an LED that is lit.
The global_auto_repeat member can be set to
.ZN AutoRepeatModeOn
or
.ZN AutoRepeatModeOff .
The auto_repeats member is a bit vector.
Each bit set to 1 indicates that auto-repeat is enabled 
for the corresponding key.
The vector is represented as 32 bytes.  
Byte N (from 0) contains the bits for keys 8N to 8N + 7
with the least significant bit in the byte representing key 8N.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadMatch
Some argument or pair of arguments has the correct type and range but fails
to match in some other way required by the request.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XChangeKeyboardMapping(3X11),
XSetPointerMapping(3X11)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
