.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XChangeSaveSet __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XChangeSaveSet, XAddToSaveSet, XRemoveFromSaveSet \- change a client's save set
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XChangeSaveSet\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^, int \fIchange_mode\fP\^);
.HP
int XAddToSaveSet\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^);
.HP
int XRemoveFromSaveSet\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIchange_mode\fP 1i
Specifies the mode.
You can pass
.ZN SetModeInsert 
or
.ZN SetModeDelete .
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.ds Wi that you want to add or delete from the client's save-set
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies the window \*(Wi.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Depending on the specified mode,
.ZN XChangeSaveSet
either inserts or deletes the specified window from the client's save-set. 
The specified window must have been created by some other client,
or a
.ZN BadMatch
error results.
.LP
.ZN XChangeSaveSet
can generate
.ZN BadMatch ,
.ZN BadValue ,
and
.ZN BadWindow 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XAddToSaveSet
function adds the specified window to the client's save-set.
The specified window must have been created by some other client,
or a
.ZN BadMatch
error results.
.LP
.ZN XAddToSaveSet
can generate
.ZN BadMatch 
and
.ZN BadWindow 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XRemoveFromSaveSet
function removes the specified window from the client's save-set.
The specified window must have been created by some other client,
or a
.ZN BadMatch
error results.
.LP
.ZN XRemoveFromSaveSet
can generate
.ZN BadMatch
and
.ZN BadWindow 
errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadMatch
Some argument or pair of arguments has the correct type and range but fails
to match in some other way required by the request.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value for a Window argument does not name a defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XReparentWindow(__libmansuffix__)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
