.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\" $XFree86: xc/doc/man/X11/XcmsLuQMC.man,v 1.3 2001/02/09 03:47:47 tsi Exp $
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XcmsCIELuvQueryMaxC __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XcmsCIELuvQueryMaxC, XcmsCIELuvQueryMaxL, XcmsCIELuvQueryMaxLC, XcmsCIELuvQueryMinL \- obtain the CIE L*u*v* coordinates
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Status XcmsCIELuvQueryMaxC\^(\^XcmsCCC \fIccc\fP\^, XcmsFloat
\fIhue_angle\fP\^, XcmsFloat \fIL_star\fP\^, XcmsColor *\fIcolor_return\fP\^);
.HP
Status XcmsCIELuvQueryMaxL\^(\^XcmsCCC \fIccc\fP\^, XcmsFloat
\fIhue_angle\fP\^, XcmsFloat \fIchroma\fP\^, XcmsColor *\fIcolor_return\fP\^);
.HP
Status XcmsCIELuvQueryMaxLC\^(\^XcmsCCC \fIccc\fP\^, XcmsFloat
\fIhue_angle\fP\^, XcmsColor *\fIcolor_return\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XcmsCIELuvQueryMinL\^(\^XcmsCCC \fIccc\fP\^, XcmsFloat
\fIhue_angle\fP\^, XcmsFloat \fIchroma\fP\^, XcmsColor *\fIcolor_return\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIccc\fP 1i
Specifies the CCC.
Note that the CCC's Client White Point and White Point Adjustment procedures
are ignored.
.ds Ch maximum lightness (MaxL) or minimum lightness (MinL)
.IP \fIchroma\fP 1i
Specifies the chroma at which to find \*(Ch.
.ds Lc maximum chroma (MaxC and MaxLC), maximum lightness (MaxL), \
or minimum lightness (MinL)
.ds lC hue angle and lightness (MaxC), hue angle and chroma (MaxL and MinL), \
or hue angle (MaxLC)
.IP \fIcolor_return\fP 1i
Returns the CIE L*u*v* coordinates of \*(Lc
displayable by the screen for the given \*(lC.
The white point associated with the returned
color specification is the Screen White Point.
The value returned in the pixel member is undefined.
.ds Ha maximum chroma (MaxC and MaxLC), maximum lightness (MaxL), \
or minimum lightness (MinL)
.IP \fIhue_angle\fP 1i
Specifies the hue angle (in degrees) at which to find \*(Ha.
.ds Ls maximum chroma (MaxC) or maximum lightness (MaxL)
.IP \fIL_star\fP 1i
Specifies the lightness (L*) at which to find \*(Ls.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XcmsCIELuvQueryMaxC
function, given a hue angle and lightness,
finds the point of maximum chroma displayable by the screen.
It returns this point in CIE L*u*v* coordinates.
.LP
The
.ZN XcmsCIELuvQueryMaxL
function, given a hue angle and chroma,
finds the point in CIE L*u*v* color space of maximum 
lightness (L*) displayable by the screen.
It returns this point in CIE L*u*v* coordinates.
An 
.ZN XcmsFailure
return value usually indicates that the given chroma
is beyond maximum for the given hue angle.
.LP
The
.ZN XcmsCIELuvQueryMaxLC
function, given a hue angle,
finds the point of maximum chroma displayable by the screen.
It returns this point in CIE L*u*v* coordinates.
.LP
The
.ZN XcmsCIELuvQueryMinL
function, given a hue angle and chroma,
finds the point of minimum lightness (L*) displayable by the screen.
It returns this point in CIE L*u*v* coordinates.
An 
.ZN XcmsFailure
return value usually indicates that the given chroma
is beyond maximum for the given hue angle.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XcmsCIELabQueryMaxC(__libmansuffix__),
XcmsTekHVCQueryMaxC(__libmansuffix__),
XcmsQueryBlack(__libmansuffix__)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
