.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\" $XFree86: xc/doc/man/X11/XcmsQClr.man,v 3.3 2001/01/27 18:20:07 dawes Exp $
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XcmsQueryColor __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XcmsQueryColor, XcmsQueryColors, XcmsLookupColor \- obtain color values
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Status XcmsQueryColor\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Colormap \fIcolormap\fP\^,
XcmsColor *\fIcolor_in_out\fP\^, XcmsColorFormat \fIresult_format\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XcmsQueryColors\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Colormap
\fIcolormap\fP\^, XcmsColor \fIcolors_in_out\fP\^[\^]\^, unsigned int
\fIncolors\fP\^, XcmsColorFormat \fIresult_format\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XcmsLookupColor\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Colormap
\fIcolormap\fP\^, char *\fIcolor_string\fP\^, XcmsColor
*\fIcolor_exact_return\fP\^, XcmsColor *\fIcolor_screen_return\fP\^,
XcmsColorFormat \fIresult_format\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIcolormap\fP 1i
Specifies the colormap.
.IP \fIcolor_exact_return\fP 1i
Returns the color specification parsed from the color string
or parsed from the corresponding string found in a color-name database.
.IP \fIcolor_in_out\fP 1i
Specifies the pixel member that indicates the color cell to query.
The color specification stored for the color cell is returned in this
.ZN XcmsColor
structure.
.IP \fIcolor_screen_return\fP 1i
Returns the color that can be reproduced on the screen.
.ds St
.IP \fIcolor_string\fP 1i
Specifies the color string\*(St.
.IP \fIresult_format\fP 1i
Specifies the color format for the returned color
specifications (color_screen_return and color_exact_return arguments).
If the format is
.ZN XcmsUndefinedFormat
and the color string contains a
numerical color specification,
the specification is returned in the format used in that numerical
color specification.
If the format is
.ZN XcmsUndefinedFormat
and the color string contains a color name,
the specification is returned in the format used 
to store the color in the database.
.IP \fIncolors\fP 1i
Specifies the number of 
.ZN XcmsColor
structures in the color-specification array.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XcmsQueryColor
function obtains the RGB value
for the pixel value in the pixel member of the specified
.ZN XcmsColor
structure and then
converts the value to the target format as
specified by the result_format argument.
If the pixel is not a valid index in the specified colormap, a
.ZN BadValue
error results.
The
.ZN XcmsQueryColors
function obtains the RGB values
for pixel values in the pixel members of
.ZN XcmsColor
structures and then
converts the values to the target format as
specified by the result_format argument.
If a pixel is not a valid index into the specified colormap, a
.ZN BadValue
error results.
If more than one pixel is in error,
the one that gets reported is arbitrary.
.LP
.ZN XcmsQueryColor
and
.ZN XcmsQueryColors
can generate
.ZN BadColor
and
.ZN BadValue
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XcmsLookupColor
function looks up the string name of a color with respect to the screen
associated with the specified colormap.
It returns both the exact color values and
the closest values provided by the screen 
with respect to the visual type of the specified colormap.
The values are returned in the format specified by result_format.
If the color name is not in the Host Portable Character Encoding, 
the result is implementation-dependent.
Use of uppercase or lowercase does not matter.
.ZN XcmsLookupColor
returns
.ZN XcmsSuccess
or
.ZN XcmsSuccessWithCompression
if the name is resolved; otherwise, it returns
.ZN XcmsFailure .
If
.ZN XcmsSuccessWithCompression
is returned, the color specification returned in 
color_screen_return is the result of gamut compression.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadColor
A value for a Colormap argument does not name a defined Colormap.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XcmsAllocColor(3X11),
XcmsStoreColor(3X11),
XQueryColor(3X11)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
