.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\" $XFree86: xc/doc/man/X11/XCrePmap.man,v 1.2 2001/01/27 18:19:57 dawes Exp $
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XCreatePixmap __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XCreatePixmap, XFreePixmap \- create or destroy pixmaps
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Pixmap XCreatePixmap\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Drawable \fId\fP\^,
unsigned int \fIwidth\fP\^, unsigned int \fIheight\fP\^, unsigned int
\fIdepth\fP\^); 
.HP
int XFreePixmap\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Pixmap \fIpixmap\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fId\fP 1i
Specifies which screen the pixmap is created on. 
.IP \fIdepth\fP 1i
Specifies the depth of the pixmap.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIpixmap\fP 1i
Specifies the pixmap.
.ds Wh , which define the dimensions of the pixmap
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
Specify the width and height\*(Wh.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XCreatePixmap
function creates a pixmap of the width, height, and depth you specified
and returns a pixmap ID that identifies it.
It is valid to pass an 
.ZN InputOnly
window to the drawable argument.
The width and height arguments must be nonzero,
or a 
.ZN BadValue
error results.
The depth argument must be one of the depths supported by the screen
of the specified drawable,
or a
.ZN BadValue
error results.
.LP
The server uses the specified drawable to determine on which screen
to create the pixmap.
The pixmap can be used only on this screen
and only with other drawables of the same depth (see
.ZN XCopyPlane
for an exception to this rule).
The initial contents of the pixmap are undefined.
.LP
.ZN XCreatePixmap
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc ,
.ZN BadDrawable ,
and
.ZN BadValue 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XFreePixmap
function first deletes the association between the pixmap ID and the pixmap.
Then, the X server frees the pixmap storage when there are no references to it.
The pixmap should never be referenced again.
.LP
.ZN XFreePixmap
can generate a
.ZN BadPixmap 
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAlloc
The server failed to allocate the requested resource or server memory.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadDrawable
A value for a Drawable argument does not name a defined Window or Pixmap.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadPixmap
A value for a Pixmap argument does not name a defined Pixmap.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCopyArea(3X11)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
