.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\" $XFree86: xc/doc/man/X11/XFofFSet.man,v 1.2 2001/01/27 18:19:59 dawes Exp $
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XFontsOfFontSet __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XFontsOfFontSet, XBaseFontNameListOfFontSet, XLocaleOfFontSet, XContextDependentDrawing, XContextualDrawing, XDirectionalDependentDrawing \- obtain fontset information
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XFontsOfFontSet\^(\^XFontSet \fIfont_set\fP\^, XFontStruct
***\fIfont_struct_list_return\fP\^, char ***\fIfont_name_list_return\fP\^); 
.HP
char *XBaseFontNameListOfFontSet\^(\^XFontSet \fIfont_set\fP\^); 
.HP
char *XLocaleOfFontSet\^(\^XFontSet \fIfont_set\fP\^); 
.HP
Bool XContextDependentDrawing\^(\^XFontSet \fIfont_set\fP\^); 
.HP
Bool XContextualDrawing\^(\^XFontSet \fIfont_set\fP\^); 
.HP
Bool XDirectionalDependentDrawing\^(\^XFontSet \fIfont_set\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfont_set\fP 1i
Specifies the font set.
.IP \fIfont_name_list_return\fP 1i
Returns the list of font names.
.IP \fIfont_struct_list_return\fP 1i
Returns the list of font structs.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XFontsOfFontSet
function returns a list of one or more 
.ZN XFontStructs
and font names for the fonts used by the Xmb and Xwc layers
for the given font set.
A list of pointers to the
.ZN XFontStruct
structures is returned to font_struct_list_return.
A list of pointers to null-terminated, fully specified font name strings
in the locale of the font set is returned to font_name_list_return.
The font_name_list order corresponds to the font_struct_list order.
The number of
.ZN XFontStruct
structures and font names is returned as the value of the function.
.LP
Because it is not guaranteed that a given character will be imaged using a
single font glyph,
there is no provision for mapping a character or default string 
to the font properties, font ID, or direction hint for the font 
for the character.
The client may access the 
.ZN XFontStruct
list to obtain these values for all the fonts currently in use.
.LP
Xlib does not guarantee that fonts are loaded from the server
at the creation of an 
.ZN XFontSet .
Xlib may choose to cache font data, loading it only as needed to draw text 
or compute text dimensions.
Therefore, existence of the per_char metrics in the 
.ZN XFontStruct
structures in the
.ZN XFontStructSet
is undefined.
Also, note that all properties in the 
.ZN XFontStruct
structures are in the STRING encoding.
.LP
The 
.ZN XFontStruct
and font name lists are owned by Xlib 
and should not be modified or freed by the client.
They will be freed by a call to
.ZN XFreeFontSet
with the associated
.ZN XFontSet .
Until freed, their contents will not be modified by Xlib.
.LP
The
.ZN XBaseFontNameListOfFontSet
function returns the original base font name list supplied
by the client when the 
.ZN XFontSet
was created.
A null-terminated string containing a list of
comma-separated font names is returned
as the value of the function.
White space may appear immediately on either side of separating commas.
.LP
If 
.ZN XCreateFontSet
obtained an XLFD name from the font properties for the font specified
by a non-XLFD base name, the
.ZN XBaseFontNameListOfFontSet
function will return the XLFD name instead of the non-XLFD base name.
.LP
The base font name list is owned by Xlib and should not be modified or
freed by the client.
It will be freed by a call to 
.ZN XFreeFontSet
with the associated 
.ZN XFontSet .
Until freed, its contents will not be modified by Xlib.
.LP
The
.ZN XLocaleOfFontSet
function
returns the name of the locale bound to the specified
.ZN XFontSet ,
as a null-terminated string.
.LP
The returned locale name string is owned by Xlib
and should not be modified or freed by the client.
It may be freed by a call to
.ZN XFreeFontSet
with the associated 
.ZN XFontSet .
Until freed, it will not be modified by Xlib.
.LP
The
.ZN XContextDependentDrawing
function returns
.ZN True
if the drawing functions implement implicit text directionality or
if text drawn with the font_set might include context-dependent drawing;
otherwise, it returns
.ZN False .
.LP
The
.ZN XContextualDrawing
function returns
.ZN True
if text drawn with the font set might include context-dependent drawing;
otherwise, it returns
.ZN False .
.LP
The
.ZN XDirectionalDependentDrawing
function returns
.ZN True
if the drawing functions implement implicit text directionality;
otherwise, it returns
.ZN False .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreateFontSet(__libmansuffix__),
XCreateOM(__libmansuffix__),
XCreateOC(__libmansuffix__),
XExtentsOfFontSet(__libmansuffix__),
XFontSetExtents(__libmansuffix__)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
