.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XInternAtom __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XInternAtom, XInternAtoms, XGetAtomName, XGetAtomNames \- create or return atom names
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Atom XInternAtom\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, char *\fIatom_name\fP\^, Bool
\fIonly_if_exists\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XInternAtoms\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, char **\fInames\fP\^, int
\fIcount\fP\^, Bool \fIonly_if_exists\fP\^, Atom *\fIatoms_return\fP\^); 
.HP
char *XGetAtomName\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Atom \fIatom\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XGetAtomNames\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Atom *\fIatoms\fP\^, int
\fIcount\fP\^, char **\fInames_return\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIatom\fP 1i
Specifies the atom for the property name you want returned.
.IP \fIatoms\fP 1i
Specifies the array of atoms.
.IP \fIatom_name\fP 1i
Specifies the name associated with the atom you want returned.
.IP \fIatoms_return\fP 1i
Returns the atoms.
.ds Cn atom names in the array
.IP \fIcount\fP 1i
Specifies the number of \*(Cn.
.ds Cn atoms in the array
.IP \fIcount\fP 1i
Specifies the number of \*(Cn.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fInames\fP 1i
Specifies the array of atom names.
.IP \fInames_return\fP 1i
Returns the atom names.
.IP \fIonly_if_exists\fP 1i
Specifies a Boolean value that indicates whether the atom must be created.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XInternAtom
function returns the atom identifier associated with the specified atom_name
string.
If only_if_exists is 
.ZN False ,
the atom is created if it does not exist.
Therefore,
.ZN XInternAtom
can return
.ZN None .
If the atom name is not in the Host Portable Character Encoding, 
the result is implementation-dependent.
Uppercase and lowercase matter;
the strings ``thing'', ``Thing'', and ``thinG'' 
all designate different atoms.  
The atom will remain defined even after the client's connection closes.
It will become undefined only when the last connection to
the X server closes.
.LP
.ZN XInternAtom
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc 
and
.ZN BadValue 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XInternAtoms
function returns the atom identifiers associated with the specified names.
The atoms are stored in the atoms_return array supplied by the caller.
Calling this function is equivalent to calling
.ZN XInternAtom
for each of the names in turn with the specified value of only_if_exists,
but this function minimizes the number of round-trip protocol exchanges
between the client and the X server.
.LP
This function returns a nonzero status if atoms are returned for
all of the names;
otherwise, it returns zero.
.LP
.ZN XInternAtoms
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc 
and
.ZN BadValue 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XGetAtomName
function returns the name associated with the specified atom.
If the data returned by the server is in the Latin Portable Character Encoding,
then the returned string is in the Host Portable Character Encoding.
Otherwise, the result is implementation-dependent.
To free the resulting string,
call
.ZN XFree .
.LP
.ZN XGetAtomName
can generate a
.ZN BadAtom 
error.
.LP
The
.ZN XGetAtomNames
function returns the names associated with the specified atoms.
The names are stored in the names_return array supplied by the caller.
Calling this function is equivalent to calling
.ZN XGetAtomName
for each of the atoms in turn,
but this function minimizes the number of round-trip protocol exchanges
between the client and the X server.
.LP
This function returns a nonzero status if names are returned for
all of the atoms;
otherwise, it returns zero.
.LP
.ZN XGetAtomNames
can generate a
.ZN BadAtom 
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAlloc
The server failed to allocate the requested resource or server memory.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAtom
A value for an Atom argument does not name a defined Atom.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XFree(__libmansuffix__),
XGetWindowProperty(__libmansuffix__)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
