.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\" $XFree86: xc/doc/man/X11/XListFont.man,v 1.2 2001/01/27 18:20:01 dawes Exp $
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XListFonts __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XListFonts, XFreeFontNames, XListFontsWithInfo, XFreeFontInfo \- obtain or free font names and information
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
char **XListFonts\^(\^Display *\^\fIdisplay\fP\^, char *\^\fIpattern\fP\^, int
\fImaxnames\fP\^, int *\^\fIactual_count_return\fP\^); 
.HP
int XFreeFontNames\^(\^char *\fIlist\fP\^[\^]\^); 
.HP
char **XListFontsWithInfo\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, char *\fIpattern\fP\^,
int \fImaxnames\fP\^, int *\fIcount_return\fP\^, XFontStruct
**\fIinfo_return\fP\^); 
.HP
int XFreeFontInfo(\^char **\fInames\fP\^, XFontStruct *\fIfree_info\fP, int
\fIactual_count\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIactual_count\fP 1i
Specifies the actual number of font names.

.IP \fIactual_count_return\fP 1i
Returns the actual number of font names.
.IP \fIcount_return\fP 1i
Returns the actual number of matched font names.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIinfo_return\fP 1i
Returns the font information.
.IP \fIfree_info\fP 1i
Specifies the font information.

.IP \fIlist\fP 1i
Specifies the array of strings you want to free.
.IP \fImaxnames\fP 1i
Specifies the maximum number of names to be returned.
.IP \fInames\fP 1i
Specifies the list of font names.

.IP \fIpattern\fP 1i
Specifies the null-terminated pattern string that can contain wildcard 
characters.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XListFonts
function returns an array of available font names 
(as controlled by the font search path; see
.ZN XSetFontPath )
that match the string you passed to the pattern argument.
The pattern string can contain any characters,
but each asterisk (*) is a wildcard for any number of characters,
and each question mark (?) is a wildcard for a single character.
If the pattern string is not in the Host Portable Character Encoding,
the result is implementation-dependent.
Use of uppercase or lowercase does not matter.
Each returned string is null-terminated.
If the data returned by the server is in the Latin Portable Character Encoding,
then the returned strings are in the Host Portable Character Encoding.
Otherwise, the result is implementation-dependent.
If there are no matching font names,
.ZN XListFonts
returns NULL.
The client should call
.ZN XFreeFontNames
when finished with the result to free the memory.
.LP
The
.ZN XFreeFontNames
function frees the array and strings returned by
.ZN XListFonts 
or
.ZN XListFontsWithInfo .
.LP
The
.ZN XListFontsWithInfo
function returns a list of font names that match the specified pattern and their
associated font information.
The list of names is limited to size specified by maxnames.
The information returned for each font is identical to what
.ZN XLoadQueryFont
would return except that the per-character metrics are not returned.
The pattern string can contain any characters,
but each asterisk (*) is a wildcard for any number of characters,
and each question mark (?) is a wildcard for a single character.
If the pattern string is not in the Host Portable Character Encoding,
the result is implementation-dependent.
Use of uppercase or lowercase does not matter.
Each returned string is null-terminated.
If the data returned by the server is in the Latin Portable Character Encoding,
then the returned strings are in the Host Portable Character Encoding.
Otherwise, the result is implementation-dependent.
If there are no matching font names,
.ZN XListFontsWithInfo
returns NULL.
.LP
To free only the allocated name array,
the client should call
.ZN XFreeFontNames .
To free both the name array and the font information array
or to free just the font information array,
the client should call
.ZN XFreeFontInfo .
.LP
The
.ZN XFreeFontInfo
function frees a font structure or an array of font structures
and optionally an array of font names.
If NULL is passed for names, no font names are freed.
If a font structure for an open font (returned by
.ZN XLoadQueryFont )
is passed, the structure is freed,
but the font is not closed; use
.ZN XUnloadFont
to close the font.
.LP
Note that
.ZN XListFontsWithInfo
is not thread-safe. If other threads make X requests on the same
.ZN Display ,
then this function's behavior is undefined.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XLoadFont(3X11),
XSetFontPath(3X11)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
