.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\" $XFree86: xc/doc/man/X11/XMapWin.man,v 1.2 2001/01/27 18:20:01 dawes Exp $
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XMapWindow __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XMapWindow, XMapRaised, XMapSubwindows \- map windows
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XMapWindow\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^); 
.HP
int XMapRaised\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^); 
.HP
int XMapSubwindows\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies the window.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XMapWindow
function
maps the window and all of its
subwindows that have had map requests.
Mapping a window that has an unmapped ancestor does not display the
window but marks it as eligible for display when the ancestor becomes
mapped.
Such a window is called unviewable.
When all its ancestors are mapped,
the window becomes viewable
and will be visible on the screen if it is not obscured by another window.
This function has no effect if the window is already mapped.
.LP
If the override-redirect of the window is
.ZN False 
and if some other client has selected
.ZN SubstructureRedirectMask
on the parent window, then the X server generates a
.ZN MapRequest
event, and the
.ZN XMapWindow
function does not map the window.
Otherwise, the window is mapped, and the X server generates a
.ZN MapNotify
event.
.LP
If the window becomes viewable and no earlier contents for it are remembered,
the X server tiles the window with its background.
If the window's background is undefined,
the existing screen contents are not
altered, and the X server generates zero or more 
.ZN Expose
events.
If backing-store was maintained while the window was unmapped, no 
.ZN Expose
events
are generated.
If backing-store will now be maintained, 
a full-window exposure is always generated.
Otherwise, only visible regions may be reported.
Similar tiling and exposure take place for any newly viewable inferiors.
.LP
.IN "XMapWindow"
If the window is an
.ZN InputOutput 
window,
.ZN XMapWindow
generates 
.ZN Expose 
events on each 
.ZN InputOutput
window that it causes to be displayed.
If the client maps and paints the window 
and if the client begins processing events, 
the window is painted twice.
To avoid this,
first ask for 
.ZN Expose 
events and then map the window,
so the client processes input events as usual.
The event list will include 
.ZN Expose 
for each
window that has appeared on the screen. 
The client's normal response to
an 
.ZN Expose 
event should be to repaint the window.
This method usually leads to simpler programs and to proper interaction
with window managers.
.LP
.ZN XMapWindow
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow 
error.
.LP
The
.ZN XMapRaised
function
essentially is similar to
.ZN XMapWindow
in that it maps the window and all of its
subwindows that have had map requests.
However, it also raises the specified window to the top of the stack.
.LP
.ZN XMapRaised
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow 
error.
.LP
The
.ZN XMapSubwindows
.IN "XMapSubwindows"
function maps all subwindows for a specified window in top-to-bottom stacking 
order.
The X server generates
.ZN Expose
events on each newly displayed window.
This may be much more efficient than mapping many windows
one at a time because the server needs to perform much of the work
only once, for all of the windows, rather than for each window.
.LP
.ZN XMapSubwindows
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow 
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value for a Window argument does not name a defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XChangeWindowAttributes(__libmansuffix__),
XConfigureWindow(__libmansuffix__),
XCreateWindow(__libmansuffix__),
XDestroyWindow(__libmansuffix__),
XRaiseWindow(__libmansuffix__),
XUnmapWindow(__libmansuffix__)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
