'\" t
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\" Copyright \(co 2000  The XFree86 Project, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/doc/man/X11/XmbLStr.man,v 1.3 2001/01/27 18:20:08 dawes Exp $
.\" 
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
'\" t
.TH XmbLookupString __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XmbLookupString, XwcLookupString, Xutf8LookupString \- obtain composed input from an input method
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XmbLookupString\^(\^XIC \fIic\fP\^, XKeyPressedEvent *\fIevent\fP, char
*\fIbuffer_return\fP\^, int \fIbytes_buffer\fP\^, KeySym
*\fIkeysym_return\fP\^, Status *\fIstatus_return\fP\^); 
.HP
int XwcLookupString\^(\^XIC \fIic\fP\^, XKeyPressedEvent *\fIevent\fP\^,
wchar_t *\fIbuffer_return\fP\^, int \fIwchars_buffer\fP\^, KeySym
*\fIkeysym_return\fP\^, Status *\fIstatus_return\fP\^); 
.HP
int Xutf8LookupString\^(\^XIC \fIic\fP\^, XKeyPressedEvent *\fIevent\fP, char
*\fIbuffer_return\fP\^, int \fIbytes_buffer\fP\^, KeySym
*\fIkeysym_return\fP\^, Status *\fIstatus_return\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIbuffer_return\fP 1i
Returns a multibyte string or wide character string (if any)
from the input method.
.IP \fIbytes_buffer\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIwchars_buffer\fP 1i
Specifies space available in the return buffer.
.ds Ev key event to be used
.IP \fIevent\fP 1i
Specifies the \*(Ev.
.IP \fIic\fP 1i
Specifies the input context.
.IP \fIkeysym_return\fP 1i
Returns the KeySym computed from the event if this argument is not NULL.
.IP \fIstatus_return\fP 1i
Returns a value indicating what kind of data is returned.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XmbLookupString ,
.ZN XwcLookupString
and
.ZN Xutf8LookupString
functions return the string from the input method specified
in the buffer_return argument.
If no string is returned,
the buffer_return argument is unchanged.
.LP
The KeySym into which the KeyCode from the event was mapped is returned
in the keysym_return argument if it is non-NULL and the status_return
argument indicates that a KeySym was returned.
If both a string and a KeySym are returned,
the KeySym value does not necessarily correspond to the string returned.
.LP
.ZN XmbLookupString
and
.ZN Xutf8LookupString
return the length of the string in bytes, and
.ZN XwcLookupString
returns the length of the string in characters.
Both
.ZN XmbLookupString
and
.ZN XwcLookupString
return text in the encoding of the locale bound to the input method
of the specified input context, and
.ZN Xutf8LookupString
returns text in UTF-8 encoding.
.LP
Each string returned by
.ZN XmbLookupString
and
.ZN XwcLookupString
begins in the initial state of the encoding of the locale
(if the encoding of the locale is state-dependent).
.NT
To ensure proper input processing,
it is essential that the client pass only 
.ZN KeyPress
events to
.ZN XmbLookupString ,
.ZN XwcLookupString
and
.ZN Xutf8LookupString .
Their behavior when a client passes a 
.ZN KeyRelease
event is undefined.
.NE
.LP
Clients should check the status_return argument before
using the other returned values.
These three functions each return a value to status_return 
that indicates what has been returned in the other arguments.
The possible values returned are:
.TS
lw(1.5i) lw(4.3i).
T{
.ZN XBufferOverflow
T}	T{
The input string to be returned is too large for the supplied buffer_return.
The required size (for
.ZN XmbLookupString ,
.ZN Xutf8LookupString
in bytes; for
.ZN XwcLookupString
in characters) is returned as the value of the function,
and the contents of buffer_return and keysym_return are not modified.
The client should recall the function with the same event
and a buffer of adequate size to obtain the string.
T}
T{
.ZN XLookupNone
T}	T{
No consistent input has been composed so far.
The contents of buffer_return and keysym_return are not modified, 
and the function returns zero.
T}
T{
.ZN XLookupChars
T}	T{
Some input characters have been composed.
They are placed in the buffer_return argument, using the encoding
described above,
and the string length is returned as the value of the function.
The content of the keysym_return argument is not modified.
T}
T{
.ZN XLookupKeySym
T}	T{
A KeySym has been returned instead of a string
and is returned in keysym_return.
The content of the buffer_return argument is not modified,
and the function returns zero.
T}
T{
.ZN XLookupBoth
T}	T{
Both a KeySym and a string are returned;
.ZN XLookupChars
and
.ZN XLookupKeySym
occur simultaneously.
T}
.TE
.LP
It does not make any difference if the input context passed as an argument to
.ZN XmbLookupString ,
.ZN XwcLookupString
and
.ZN Xutf8LookupString
is the one currently in possession of the focus or not.
Input may have been composed within an input context before it lost the focus,
and that input may be returned on subsequent calls to
.ZN XmbLookupString ,
.ZN XwcLookupString
or
.ZN Xutf8LookupString
even though it does not have any more keyboard focus.
.LP
The function
.ZN Xutf8LookupString
is an extension introduced by The XFree86 Project, Inc. in their 4.0.2
release. Its presence is
indicated by the macro
.ZN X_HAVE_UTF8_STRING .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XLookupKeysym(3X11)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
