.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\" $XFree86: xc/doc/man/X11/XRaiseWin.man,v 1.2 2001/01/27 18:20:03 dawes Exp $
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XRaiseWindow __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XRaiseWindow, XLowerWindow, XCirculateSubwindows, XCirculateSubwindowsUp, XCirculateSubwindowsDown, XRestackWindows \- change window stacking order
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XRaiseWindow\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^); 
.HP
int XLowerWindow\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^); 
.HP
int XCirculateSubwindows\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^, int
\fIdirection\fP\^); 
.HP
int XCirculateSubwindowsUp\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^); 
.HP
int XCirculateSubwindowsDown\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^); 
.HP
int XRestackWindows\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIwindows\fP\^[], int
\fInwindows\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdirection\fP 1i
Specifies the direction (up or down) that you want to circulate
the window. 
You can pass 
.ZN RaiseLowest
or
.ZN LowerHighest .
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fInwindows\fP 1i
Specifies the number of windows to be restacked.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies the window.
.IP \fIwindows\fP 1i
Specifies an array containing the windows to be restacked.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XRaiseWindow
function
raises the specified window to the top of the stack so that no sibling window
obscures it.
If the windows are regarded as overlapping sheets of paper stacked 
on a desk,
then raising a window is analogous to moving the sheet to the top of
the stack but leaving its x and y location on the desk constant.
Raising a mapped window may generate 
.ZN Expose
events for the window and any mapped subwindows that were formerly obscured.  
.LP
If the override-redirect attribute of the window is 
.ZN False 
and some
other client has selected 
.ZN SubstructureRedirectMask 
on the parent, the X server generates a
.ZN ConfigureRequest 
event, and no processing is performed.
Otherwise, the window is raised.
.LP
.ZN XRaiseWindow
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow 
error.
.LP
The
.ZN XLowerWindow
function lowers the specified window to the bottom of the stack
so that it does not obscure any sibling
windows.
If the windows are regarded as overlapping sheets of paper
stacked on a desk, then lowering a window is analogous to moving the
sheet to the bottom of the stack but leaving its x and y location on
the desk constant.
Lowering a mapped window will generate 
.ZN Expose 
events on any windows it formerly obscured.
.LP
If the override-redirect attribute of the window is 
.ZN False 
and some
other client has selected 
.ZN SubstructureRedirectMask 
on the parent, the X server generates a
.ZN ConfigureRequest 
event, and no processing is performed.  
Otherwise, the window is lowered to the bottom of the
stack.
.LP
.ZN XLowerWindow
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow 
error.
.LP
The
.ZN XCirculateSubwindows
function circulates children of the specified window in the specified 
direction.
If you specify
.ZN RaiseLowest ,
.ZN XCirculateSubwindows
raises the lowest mapped child (if any) that is occluded 
by another child to the top of the stack.
If you specify
.ZN LowerHighest ,
.ZN XCirculateSubwindows
lowers the highest mapped child (if any) that occludes another child
to the bottom of the stack.
Exposure processing is then performed on formerly obscured windows.
If some other client has selected 
.ZN SubstructureRedirectMask 
on the window, the X server generates a 
.ZN CirculateRequest 
event, and no further processing is performed.
If a child is actually restacked,
the X server generates a
.ZN CirculateNotify
event. 
.LP
.ZN XCirculateSubwindows
can generate
.ZN BadValue
and
.ZN BadWindow 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XCirculateSubwindowsUp
function raises the lowest mapped child of the specified window that
is partially
or completely
occluded by another child.
Completely unobscured children are not affected.
This is a convenience function equivalent to
.ZN XCirculateSubwindows
with
.ZN RaiseLowest
specified.
.LP
.ZN XCirculateSubwindowsUp
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow 
error.
.LP
The
.ZN XCirculateSubwindowsDown
function lowers the highest mapped child of the specified window that partially
or completely occludes another child.
Completely unobscured children are not affected.
This is a convenience function equivalent to
.ZN XCirculateSubwindows
with
.ZN LowerHighest
specified.
.LP
.ZN XCirculateSubwindowsDown
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow 
error.
.LP
The
.ZN XRestackWindows
function restacks the windows in the order specified,
from top to bottom.
The stacking order of the first window in the windows array is unaffected,
but the other windows in the array are stacked underneath the first window,
in the order of the array.
The stacking order of the other windows is not affected.
For each window in the window array that is not a child of the specified window,
a
.ZN BadMatch
error results.
.LP
If the override-redirect attribute of a window is 
.ZN False 
and some
other client has selected 
.ZN SubstructureRedirectMask 
on the parent, the X server generates 
.ZN ConfigureRequest 
events for each window whose override-redirect flag is not set, 
and no further processing is performed.
Otherwise, the windows will be restacked in top-to-bottom order.
.LP
.ZN XRestackWindows
can generate
.ZN BadWindow 
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value for a Window argument does not name a defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XChangeWindowAttributes(__libmansuffix__),
XConfigureWindow(__libmansuffix__),
XCreateWindow(__libmansuffix__),
XDestroyWindow(__libmansuffix__),
XMapWindow(__libmansuffix__),
XUnmapWindow(__libmansuffix__)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
