.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\" $XFree86: xc/doc/man/X11/XReadBF.man,v 1.3 2001/02/07 22:35:20 tsi Exp $
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XReadBitmapFile __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XReadBitmapFile, XReadBitmapFileData, XWriteBitmapFile, XCreatePixmapFromBitmapData, XCreateBitmapFromData \- manipulate bitmaps
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XReadBitmapFile(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Drawable \fId\fP\^, char
*\fIfilename\fP\^, unsigned int *\fIwidth_return\fP, unsigned int
*\fIheight_return\fP\^, Pixmap *\fIbitmap_return\fP\^, int
*\fIx_hot_return\fP, int *\fIy_hot_return\fP\^); 
.HP
int XReadBitmapFileData(\^char *\fIfilename\fP\^, unsigned int
*\fIwidth_return\fP, unsigned int *\fIheight_return\fP\^, unsigned char
*\fIdata_return\fP\^, int *\fIx_hot_return\fP, int *\fIy_hot_return\fP\^); 
.HP
int XWriteBitmapFile(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, char *\fIfilename\fP\^,
Pixmap \fIbitmap\fP\^, unsigned int \fIwidth\fP, unsigned int \fIheight\fP\^,
int \fIx_hot\fP, int \fIy_hot\fP\^); 
.HP
Pixmap XCreatePixmapFromBitmapData\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Drawable
\fId\fP\^, char *\fIdata\fP\^, unsigned int \fIwidth\fP, unsigned int
\fIheight\fP\^, unsigned long \fIfg\fP, unsigned long \fIbg\fP\^, unsigned int
\fIdepth\fP\^); 
.HP
Pixmap XCreateBitmapFromData(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Drawable \fId\fP\^,
char *\fIdata\fP\^, unsigned int \fIwidth\fP, unsigned int \fIheight\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIbitmap\fP 1i
Specifies the bitmap.
.IP \fIbitmap_return\fP 1i
Returns the bitmap that is created.
.ds Dr \ that indicates the screen
.IP \fId\fP 1i
Specifies the drawable\*(Dr. 
.IP \fIdata\fP 1i
Specifies the data in bitmap format.
.IP \fIdata\fP 1i
Specifies the location of the bitmap data.
.IP \fIdata_return\fP 1i
Returns the bitmap data.
.IP \fIdepth\fP 1i
Specifies the depth of the pixmap.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIfg\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIbg\fP 1i
Specify the foreground and background pixel values to use.
.IP \fIfilename\fP 1i
Specifies the file name to use.
The format of the file name is operating-system dependent.
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
Specify the width and height.
.IP \fIwidth_return\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight_return\fP 1i
Return the width and height values of the read in bitmap file.
.IP \fIx_hot\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIy_hot\fP 1i
Specify where to place the hotspot coordinates (or \-1,\-1 if none are present)
in the file.
.IP \fIx_hot_return\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIy_hot_return\fP 1i
Return the hotspot coordinates.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XReadBitmapFile
function reads in a file containing a bitmap.
The file is parsed in the encoding of the current locale.
The ability to read other than the standard format 
is implementation-dependent.
If the file cannot be opened, 
.ZN XReadBitmapFile 
returns 
.ZN BitmapOpenFailed .  
If the file can be opened but does not contain valid bitmap data, 
it returns 
.ZN BitmapFileInvalid .  
If insufficient working storage is allocated,
it returns
.ZN BitmapNoMemory .  
If the file is readable and valid,
it returns 
.ZN BitmapSuccess .
.LP
.ZN XReadBitmapFile 
returns the bitmap's height and width, as read
from the file, to width_return and height_return.
It then creates a pixmap of the appropriate size, 
reads the bitmap data from the file into the pixmap,
and assigns the pixmap to the caller's variable bitmap.  
The caller must free the bitmap using 
.ZN XFreePixmap 
when finished.
If \fIname\fP_x_hot and \fIname\fP_y_hot exist,
.ZN XReadBitmapFile 
returns them to x_hot_return and y_hot_return;
otherwise, it returns \-1,\-1.
.LP
.ZN XReadBitmapFile
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc
and
.ZN BadDrawable
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XReadBitmapFileData
function reads in a file containing a bitmap, in the same manner as
.ZN XReadBitmapFile ,
but returns the data directly rather than creating a pixmap in the server.
The bitmap data is returned in data_return; the client must free this
storage when finished with it by calling
.ZN XFree .
The status and other return values are the same as for
.ZN XReadBitmapFile .
.LP
The
.ZN XWriteBitmapFile
function writes a bitmap out to a file in the X Version 11 format.
The name used in the output file is derived from the file name
by deleting the directory prefix.
The file is written in the encoding of the current locale.
If the file cannot be opened for writing, 
it returns 
.ZN BitmapOpenFailed .  
If insufficient memory is allocated,
.ZN XWriteBitmapFile
returns
.ZN BitmapNoMemory ;
otherwise, on no error,
it returns
.ZN BitmapSuccess .
If x_hot and y_hot are not \-1, \-1, 
.ZN XWriteBitmapFile
writes them out as the hotspot coordinates for the bitmap.
.LP
.ZN XWriteBitmapFile
can generate
.ZN BadDrawable
and
.ZN BadMatch
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XCreatePixmapFromBitmapData
function creates a pixmap of the given depth and then does a bitmap-format
.ZN XPutImage
of the data into it.
The depth must be supported by the screen of the specified drawable,
or a
.ZN BadMatch
error results.
.LP
.ZN XCreatePixmapFromBitmapData
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc
and
.ZN BadMatch
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XCreateBitmapFromData
function allows you to include in your C program (using
.ZN #include )
a bitmap file that was written out by
.ZN XWriteBitmapFile
(X version 11 format only) without reading in the bitmap file.
The following example creates a gray bitmap:
.LP
.Ds 0
\&#include "gray.bitmap"
.sp 6p
Pixmap bitmap;
bitmap = XCreateBitmapFromData(display, window, gray_bits, gray_width, gray_height);
.De
.LP
If insufficient working storage was allocated,
.ZN XCreateBitmapFromData
returns
.ZN None .
It is your responsibility to free the
bitmap using
.ZN XFreePixmap
when finished.
.LP
.ZN XCreateBitmapFromData
can generate a
.ZN BadAlloc
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAlloc
The server failed to allocate the requested resource or server memory.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadDrawable
A value for a Drawable argument does not name a defined Window or Pixmap.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadMatch
An
.ZN InputOnly
window is used as a Drawable.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreatePixmap(__libmansuffix__),
XPutImage(__libmansuffix__)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
