.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\" $XFree86: xc/doc/man/X11/XUQuark.man,v 1.4 2001/02/09 03:47:47 tsi Exp $
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XrmUniqueQuark __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XrmUniqueQuark, XrmStringToQuark, XrmPermStringToQuark, XrmQuarkToString, XrmStringToQuarkList, XrmStringToBindingQuarkList \- manipulate resource quarks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
XrmQuark XrmUniqueQuark\^(void); 
.LP
\&#define XrmStringToName(string) XrmStringToQuark(string)
.br
\&#define XrmStringToClass(string) XrmStringToQuark(string)
.br
\&#define XrmStringToRepresentation(string) XrmStringToQuark(string)
.HP
int XrmQuark XrmStringToQuark\^(\^char *\fIstring\fP\^); 
.HP
XrmQuark XrmPermStringToQuark\^(\^char *\fIstring\fP\^); 
.LP
\&#define XrmStringToName(string) XrmStringToQuark(string)
.br
\&#define XrmStringToClass(string) XrmStringToQuark(string)
.br
\&#define XrmStringToRepresentation(string) XrmStringToQuark(string)
.HP
XrmQuark XrmStringToQuark\^(\^char *\fIstring\fP\^); 
.HP
XrmQuark XrmPermStringToQuark\^(\^char *\fIstring\fP\^); 
.LP
\&#define XrmNameToString(name) XrmQuarkToString(name)
.br
\&#define XrmClassToString(class) XrmQuarkToString(class)
.br
\&#define XrmRepresentationToString(type) XrmQuarkToString(type)
.HP
char *XrmQuarkToString\^(\^XrmQuark \fIquark\fP\^); 
.LP
\&#define XrmStringToNameList(str, name)  XrmStringToQuarkList((str), (name))
.br
\&#define XrmStringToClassList(str,class) XrmStringToQuarkList((str), (class))
.sp
.HP
void XrmStringToQuarkList\^(\^char *\fIstring\fP\^, XrmQuarkList
\fIquarks_return\fP\^); 
.HP
XrmStringToBindingQuarkList\^(\^char *\fIstring\fP\^, XrmBindingList
\fIbindings_return\fP\^, XrmQuarkList \fIquarks_return\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIbindings_return\fP 1i
Returns the binding list.
.IP \fIquark\fP 1i
Specifies the quark for which the equivalent string is desired.
.IP \fIquarks_return\fP 1i
Returns the list of quarks.
.ds Ql \ or quark list
.IP \fIstring\fP 1i
Specifies the string for which a quark\*(Ql is to be allocated.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XrmUniqueQuark
function allocates a quark that is guaranteed not to represent any string that
is known to the resource manager.
.LP
These functions can be used to convert from string to quark representation.
If the string is not in the Host Portable Character Encoding,
the conversion is implementation-dependent.
The string argument to
.ZN XrmStringToQuark
need not be permanently allocated storage.
.ZN XrmPermStringToQuark
is just like
.ZN XrmStringToQuark ,
except that Xlib is permitted to assume the string argument is permanently
allocated,
and, hence, that it can be used as the value to be returned by
.ZN XrmQuarkToString .
.LP
For any given quark, if
.ZN XrmStringToQuark
returns a non-NULL value,
all future calls will return the same value (identical address).
.LP
These functions can be used to convert from quark representation to string.
The string pointed to by the return value must not be modified or freed.
The returned string is byte-for-byte equal to the original
string passed to one of the string-to-quark routines.
If no string exists for that quark,
.ZN XrmQuarkToString
returns NULL.
For any given quark, if
.ZN XrmQuarkToString
returns a non-NULL value,
all future calls will return the same value (identical address).
.LP
These functions can be used to convert from string to quark representation.
If the string is not in the Host Portable Character Encoding,
the conversion is implementation-dependent.
The string argument to
.ZN XrmStringToQuark
need not be permanently allocated storage.
.ZN XrmPermStringToQuark
is just like
.ZN XrmStringToQuark ,
except that Xlib is permitted to assume the string argument is permanently
allocated,
and, hence, that it can be used as the value to be returned by
.ZN XrmQuarkToString .
.LP
For any given quark, if
.ZN XrmStringToQuark
returns a non-NULL value,
all future calls will return the same value (identical address).
.LP
The
.ZN XrmStringToQuarkList
function converts the null-terminated string (generally a fully qualified name)
to a list of quarks.
The caller must allocate sufficient space for the quarks list before calling 
.ZN XrmStringToQuarkList .
Note that the string must be in the valid ResourceName format 
(see section 15.1).
If the string is not in the Host Portable Character Encoding,
the conversion is implementation-dependent.
.LP
A binding list is a list of type
.ZN XrmBindingList
and indicates if components of name or class lists are bound tightly or loosely
(that is, if wildcarding of intermediate components is specified).
.LP
.EX
typedef enum {XrmBindTightly, XrmBindLoosely} XrmBinding, *XrmBindingList;
.EE
.LP
.ZN XrmBindTightly
indicates that a period separates the components, and
.ZN XrmBindLoosely
indicates that an asterisk separates the components.
.LP
The
.ZN XrmStringToBindingQuarkList
function converts the specified string to a binding list and a quark list.
The caller must allocate sufficient space for the quarks list and the
binding list before calling 
.ZN XrmStringToBindingQuarkList .
If the string is not in the Host Portable Character Encoding
the conversion is implementation-dependent.
Component names in the list are separated by a period or
an asterisk character.
If the string does not start with period or asterisk,
a period is assumed.
For example, ``*a.b*c'' becomes:
.LP
.TS
l l l.
quarks	a	b	c
bindings	loose	tight	loose
.TE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XrmGetResource(__libmansuffix__),
XrmInitialize(__libmansuffix__),
XrmMergeDatabases(__libmansuffix__),
XrmPutResource(__libmansuffix__)
.LP
\fI\*(xL\fP
