.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\" $XFree86: xc/doc/man/X11/XSeLAttr.man,v 1.2 2001/01/27 18:20:04 dawes Exp $
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XSetLineAttributes __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XSetLineAttributes, XSetDashes \- GC convenience routines
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XSetLineAttributes\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, GC \fIgc\fP\^, unsigned
int \fIline_width\fP\^, int \fIline_style\fP\^, int \fIcap_style\fP\^, int
\fIjoin_style\fP\^); 
.HP
int XSetDashes\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, GC \fIgc\fP\^, int
\fIdash_offset\fP\^, char \fIdash_list\fP[]\^, int \fIn\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIcap_style\fP 1i
Specifies the line-style and cap-style you want to set for the specified GC.
You can pass
.ZN CapNotLast ,
.ZN CapButt ,
.ZN CapRound ,
or
.ZN CapProjecting .
.IP \fIdash_list\fP 1i
Specifies the dash-list for the dashed line-style
you want to set for the specified GC. 
.IP \fIdash_offset\fP 1i
Specifies the phase of the pattern for the dashed line-style you want to set
for the specified GC. 
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
Specifies the GC.
.IP \fIjoin_style\fP 1i
Specifies the line join-style you want to set for the specified GC.
You can pass
.ZN JoinMiter ,
.ZN JoinRound ,
or
.ZN JoinBevel .
.IP \fIline_style\fP 1i
Specifies the line-style you want to set for the specified GC.
You can pass
.ZN LineSolid ,
.ZN LineOnOffDash ,
or
.ZN LineDoubleDash .
.IP \fIline_width\fP 1i
Specifies the line-width you want to set for the specified GC.
.IP \fIn\fP 1i
Specifies the number of elements in dash_list. 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XSetLineAttributes
function sets the line drawing components in the specified GC.
.LP
.ZN XSetLineAttributes
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc ,
.ZN BadGC ,
and
.ZN BadValue 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XSetDashes
function sets the dash-offset and dash-list attributes for dashed line styles
in the specified GC.
There must be at least one element in the specified dash_list,
or a
.ZN BadValue
error results. 
The initial and alternating elements (second, fourth, and so on) 
of the dash_list are the even dashes, and
the others are the odd dashes.
Each element specifies a dash length in pixels.
All of the elements must be nonzero,
or a
.ZN BadValue
error results.
Specifying an odd-length list is equivalent to specifying the same list
concatenated with itself to produce an even-length list.
.LP
The dash-offset defines the phase of the pattern,
specifying how many pixels into the dash-list the pattern
should actually begin in any single graphics request.
Dashing is continuous through path elements combined with a join-style
but is reset to the dash-offset between each sequence of joined lines.
.LP
The unit of measure for dashes is the same for the ordinary coordinate system.
Ideally, a dash length is measured along the slope of the line, but implementations
are only required to match this ideal for horizontal and vertical lines.
Failing the ideal semantics, it is suggested that the length be measured along the
major axis of the line.
The major axis is defined as the x axis for lines drawn at an angle of between
\-45 and +45 degrees or between 135 and 225 degrees from the x axis.
For all other lines, the major axis is the y axis.
.LP
.ZN XSetDashes
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc ,
.ZN BadGC ,
and
.ZN BadValue 
errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAlloc
The server failed to allocate the requested resource or server memory.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadGC
A value for a GContext argument does not name a defined GContext.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreateGC(3X11),
XQueryBestSize(3X11),
XSetArcMode(3X11),
XSetClipOrigin(3X11),
XSetFillStyle(3X11),
XSetFont(3X11),
XSetState(3X11),
XSetTile(3X11)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
