.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XSetWMProtocols __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XSetWMProtocols, XGetWMProtocols \- set or read a window's WM_PROTOCOLS property
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
Status XSetWMProtocols\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^, Atom
*\fIprotocols\fP\^, int \fIcount\fP\^); 
.HP
Status XGetWMProtocols\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, Window \fIw\fP\^, Atom
**\fIprotocols_return\fP\^, int *\fIcount_return\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.ds Cn protocols in the list
.IP \fIcount\fP 1i
Specifies the number of \*(Cn.
.ds Cn protocols in the list
.IP \fIcount_return\fP 1i
Returns the number of \*(Cn.
.IP \fIprotocols\fP 1i
Specifies the list of protocols.
.IP \fIprotocols_return\fP 1i
Returns the list of protocols.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.ZN XSetWMProtocols 
function replaces the WM_PROTOCOLS property on the specified window 
with the list of atoms specified by the protocols argument.
If the property does not already exist,
.ZN XSetWMProtocols
sets the WM_PROTOCOLS property on the specified window
to the list of atoms specified by the protocols argument.
The property is stored with a type of ATOM and a format of 32.
If it cannot intern the WM_PROTOCOLS atom, 
.ZN XSetWMProtocols
returns a zero status.
Otherwise, it returns a nonzero status.
.LP
.ZN XSetWMProtocols
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc
and
.ZN BadWindow
errors.
.LP
The 
.ZN XGetWMProtocols 
function returns the list of atoms stored in the WM_PROTOCOLS property 
on the specified window.
These atoms describe window manager protocols in which the owner 
of this window is willing to participate.
If the property exists, is of type ATOM, is of format 32, 
and the atom WM_PROTOCOLS can be interned, 
.ZN XGetWMProtocols
sets the protocols_return argument to a list of atoms, 
sets the count_return argument to the number of elements in the list, 
and returns a nonzero status.
Otherwise, it sets neither of the return arguments
and returns a zero status.
To release the list of atoms, use
.ZN XFree .
.LP
.ZN XGetWMProtocols
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow
error.
.SH PROPERTIES
.TP 1i
\s-1WM_PROTOCOLS\s+1
List of atoms that identify the communications protocols between the
client and window manager in which the client is willing to participate.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAlloc
The server failed to allocate the requested resource or server memory.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value for a Window argument does not name a defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XAllocClassHint(__libmansuffix__),
XAllocIconSize(__libmansuffix__),
XAllocSizeHints(__libmansuffix__),
XAllocWMHints(__libmansuffix__),
XFree(__libmansuffix__),
XSetCommand(__libmansuffix__),
XSetTransientForHint(__libmansuffix__),
XSetTextProperty(__libmansuffix__),
XSetWMClientMachine(__libmansuffix__),
XSetWMColormapWindows(__libmansuffix__),
XSetWMIconName(__libmansuffix__),
XSetWMName(__libmansuffix__),
XSetWMProperties(__libmansuffix__),
XStringListToTextProperty(__libmansuffix__)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
