.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1994, 1996 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" Copyright \(co 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 by
.\" Digital Equipment Corporation
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright \(co 1990, 1991 by
.\" Tektronix, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this documentation for
.\" any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice
.\" and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the names of
.\" Digital and Tektronix not be used in in advertising or publicity pertaining
.\" to this documentation without specific, written prior permission.
.\" Digital and Tektronix makes no representations about the suitability
.\" of this documentation for any purpose.
.\" It is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
.\" 
.\"
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de hN
.ie t <\fB\\$1\fR>\\$2
.el <\fI\\$1\fP>\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XSetTile __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XSetTile, XSetStipple, XSetTSOrigin \- GC convenience routines
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
int XSetTile\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, GC \fIgc\fP\^, Pixmap
\fItile\fP\^); 
.HP
int XSetStipple\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, GC \fIgc\fP\^, Pixmap
\fIstipple\fP\^); 
.HP
int XSetTSOrigin\^(\^Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^, GC \fIgc\fP\^, int
\fIts_x_origin\fP\^, int \fIts_y_origin\fP\^); 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
Specifies the GC.
.IP \fIstipple\fP 1i
Specifies the stipple you want to set for the specified GC.
.IP \fItile\fP 1i
Specifies the fill tile you want to set for the specified GC. 
.IP \fIts_x_origin\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIts_y_origin\fP 1i
Specify the x and y coordinates of the tile and stipple origin.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XSetTile
function sets the fill tile in the specified GC.
The tile and GC must have the same depth,
or a
.ZN BadMatch
error results.
.LP
.ZN XSetTile
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc ,
.ZN BadGC ,
.ZN BadMatch ,
and
.ZN BadPixmap 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XSetStipple
function sets the stipple in the specified GC.
The stipple must have a depth of one,
or a
.ZN BadMatch
error results.
.LP
.ZN XSetStipple
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc ,
.ZN BadGC ,
.ZN BadMatch ,
and
.ZN BadPixmap 
errors.
.LP
The
.ZN XSetTSOrigin
function sets the tile/stipple origin in the specified GC.
When graphics requests call for tiling or stippling,
the parent's origin will be interpreted relative to whatever destination
drawable is specified in the graphics request.
.LP
.ZN XSetTSOrigin
can generate
.ZN BadAlloc
and
.ZN BadGC 
errors.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 1i
.ZN BadAlloc
The server failed to allocate the requested resource or server memory.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadGC
A value for a GContext argument does not name a defined GContext.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadMatch
Some argument or pair of arguments has the correct type and range but fails
to match in some other way required by the request.
.TP 1i
.ZN BadPixmap
A value for a Pixmap argument does not name a defined Pixmap.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreateGC(__libmansuffix__),
XQueryBestSize(__libmansuffix__),
XSetArcMode(__libmansuffix__),
XSetClipOrigin(__libmansuffix__),
XSetFillStyle(__libmansuffix__),
XSetFont(__libmansuffix__),
XSetLineAttributes(__libmansuffix__),
XSetState(__libmansuffix__)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
